****Dialogues from script :10_things_i_hate_about_you.txt****

rider		Hey -- sorry.
kat		Leave it
bianca		Did you change your hair?
bianca		You might wanna think about it
boy		 Hey, Bianca.
girl		Awesome shoes.
miss perky		I'm sure you won't find Padua any different than your old school.  Same little asswipe mother-fuckers everywhere.
miss perky		 Any questions?
cameron		I don't think so, ma'am
miss perky		Then go forth.  Scoot   I've got deviants to see.
miss perky		 Patrick Verona.  I see we're making our visits a weekly ritual.
patrick		I missed you.
miss perky		It says here you exposed yourself to a group of freshmen girls.
patrick		It was a bratwurst.  I was eating lunch.
miss perky		With the teeth of your zipper?
michael		You the new guy?
cameron		So they tell me...
michael		C'mon.  I'm supposed to give you the tour.
michael		 So -- which Dakota you from?
cameron		North, actually.  How'd you   ?
michael		I was kidding. People actually live there?
cameron		Yeah.  A couple.  We're outnumbered by the cows, though.
michael		How many people were in your old school?
cameron		Thirty-two.
michael		Get out!
cameron		How many people go here?
michael		Couple thousand. Most of them evil
michael		We've got your basic beautiful people. Unless they talk to you first, don't bother.
michael		 Those 're your cowboys.
cameron		That I'm used to.
michael		Yeah, but these guys have never seen a horse.  They just jack off to Clint Eastwood.
michael		 To the right, we have the Coffee Kids. Very edgy.  Don't make any sudden movements around them.
michael		And these delusionals are the White Rastae.
michael		 Big Marley fans.  Think they're black. Semi-political, but mostly, they watch a lot of Wild Kingdom, if you know what I mean.
michael		 Derek - save some for after lunch, bub?
derek		 Michael, my brother, peace
cameron		So where do you fit in all this?
michael		Future MBAs-  We're all Ivy League, already accepted.  Someday I'll be sipping Merlot while those guys --
michael		 are fixing my Saab.  Yuppie greed is back, my friend.
cameron		That girl -- I --
michael		You burn, you pine, you perish?
cameron		Who is she?
michael		Bianca Stratford.  Sophomore. Don't even think about it
cameron		Why not?
michael		I could start with your haircut, but it doesn't matter.  She's not allowed to date until her older sister does.  And that's an impossibility.
kat		Why didn't we just read the Hardy Boys?
kat		This book is about a guy and his fishing habit.  Not exactly a crucial topic.
kat		 Frankly, I'm baffled as to why we still revere Hemingway.  He was an abusive, alcoholic misogynist who had a lot of cats.
joey		As opposed to a bitter self-righteous hag who has no friends?
kat		I guess the school board thinks because Hemingway's male and an asshole, he's worthy of our time
kat		 What about Colette?  Charlotte Bronte? Simone de Beauvoir?
patrick		Mother Goose?
miss perky		Katarina Stratford.  My, my.  You've been terrorizing Ms. Blaise again.
kat		Expressing my opinion is not a terrorist action.
miss perky		Well, yes, compared to your other choices of expression this year, today's events are quite mild.  By the way, Bobby Rictor's gonad retrieval operation went quite well, in case you're interested.
kat		I still maintain that he kicked himself in the balls.  I was merely a spectator.
miss perky		The point is Kat -- people perceive you as somewhat ...
kat		Tempestuous?
miss perky		No ... I believe "heinous bitch" is the term used most often.
miss perky		 You might want to work on that
kat		As always, thank you for your excellent guidance.
bianca		Not really.
teacher		Mandella -- since you're assisting us, you might as well comment.  I'm assuming you read the assignment.
mandella		Uh, yeah, I read it all
teacher		The whole play^
mandelia		The whole folio.  All the plays.
teacher		 You've read every play by William Shakespeare?
mandella		Haven't you?
kat		The fact that you're cutting gym so you can T.A. Sophomore English just to hear his name, is a little without in itself if you ask me.
mandella		Who's that?
kat		Patrick Verona   Random skid.
mandella		That's Pat Verona? The one who was gone for a year? I heard he was doing porn movies.
kat		I'm sure he's completely incapable of doing anything that interesting.
mandella		He always look so
kat		Block E?
kat		 Mandella, eat.  Starving yourself is a very slow way to die.
mandella		Just a little.
kat		What's this?
mandella		An attempted slit.
kat		I realize that the men of this fine institution are severely lacking, but killing yourself so you can be with William Shakespeare is beyond the scope of normal teenage obsessions.  You're venturing far past daytime talk show fodder and entering the world of those who need very expensive therapy.
mandella		But imagine the things he'd say during sex.
kat		Okay, say you do it.  You kill yourself, you end up in wherever you end up and he's there.  Do you really think he's gonna wanna dace a ninety pound compulsive who failed volleyball?
cohort		Virgin alert.
joey		Lookin' good, ladies.
mandella		Tragic.
cameron		Why do girls like that always like guys like that?
michael		Because they're bred to.  Their mothers liked guys like that, and their grandmothers before them. Their gene pool is rarely diluted.
cameron		He always have that shit-eating grin?
michael		Joey Dorsey?  Perma-shit-grin.  I wish I could say he's a moron, but he's number twelve in the class.  And a model.  Mostly regional stuff, but he's rumored to have a big tube sock ad coming out.
michael		 You know French?
cameron		Sure do ... my Mom's from Canada
michael		Guess who just signed up for a tutor?
cameron		You mean I'd get a chance to talk to her?
michael		You could consecrate with her, my friend.
joey		 The vintage look is over, Kat. Haven't you been reading your Sassy?
kat		Yeah, and I noticed the only part of you featured in your big Kmart spread was your elbow.  Tough break.
joey		 They're running the rest of me next month.
kat		The people at this school are so incredibly foul.
mandella		You could always go with me.  I'm sure William has some friends.
joey		Need a ride, ladies?
mandella		That's a charming new development
kat		 Remove head from sphincter!  Then pedal!
cameron		You all right?
michael		Yeah, just a minor encounter with the shrew.
cameron		That's her?  Bianca's sister?
michael		The mewling, rampalian wretch herself.
kat		"Undulating with desire, Adrienne removes her crimson cape, revealing her creamy --"
sharon		In the microwave.
walter		 Make anyone cry today?
kat		Sadly, no.  But it's only four-thirty.
kat		 Where've you been?
bianca		 Nowhere... Hi, Daddy.
walter		Hello, precious.
kat		How touching.
walter		What's this?  It says Sarah Lawrence?
kat		I guess I got in
sharon		What's a synonym for throbbing?
walter		Sarah Lawrence is on the other side of the country.
kat		I know.
walter		I thought we decided you were going to
kat		You decided.
bianca		Is there even a question that we want her to stay?
kat		Ask Bianca who drove her home
sharon		Swollen...turgid.
walter		 Who drove you home?
bianca		Now don't get upset. Daddy, but there's this boy... and I think he might ask...
walter		No! You're not dating until your sister starts dating.  End of discussion.
bianca		What if she never starts dating?
walter		Then neither will you.  And I'll get to sleep at night.
bianca		But it's not fair -- she's a mutant, Daddy!
kat		This from someone whose diary is devoted to favorite grooming tips?
walter		Enough!
walter		 Do you know what this is?
walter		This is why you're not dating until your sister does.
bianca		But she doesn't want to date.
walter		Exactly my point
walter		 Jesus!  Can a man even grab a sandwich before you women start dilating?
sharon		Tumescent!
walter		 You're not helping.
bianca		Can we make this quick?  Roxanne Korrine and Andrew Barrett are having an incredibly horrendous public break- up on the quad.  Again.
cameron		Well, I thought we'd start with pronunciation, if that's okay with you.
bianca		Not the hacking and gagging and spitting part.  Please.
cameron		 Okay... then how 'bout we try out some French cuisine.  Saturday?  Night?
bianca		You're asking me out.  That's so cute. What's your name again?
cameron		 Forget it.
bianca		No, no, it's my fault -- we didn't have a proper introduction ---
cameron		Cameron.
bianca		The thing is, Cameron -- I'm at the mercy of a particularly hideous breed of loser.  My sister.  I can't date until she does.
cameron		Seems like she could get a date easy enough...
cameron		Why?
bianca		Unsolved mystery.  She used to be really popular when she started high school, then it was just like she got sick of it or something.
cameron		That's a shame.
bianca		Gosh, if only we could find Kat a boyfriend...
cameron		Let me see what I can do.
michael		You're in school for one day and you ask out the most beautiful girl?  Do you have no concept of the high school social code?
cameron		I teach her French, get to know her, dazzle her with charm and she falls in love with me.
michael		Unlikely, but even so, she still can't go out with you.  So what's the point?
cameron		What about him?
michael		 You wanna go out with him?
cameron		 No - he could wrangle with the sister.
michael		What makes you think he'll do it?
cameron		He seems like he thrives on danger
michael		No kidding.  He's a criminal.  I heard he lit a state trooper on fire.  He just got out of Alcatraz...
cameron		They always let felons sit in on Honors Biology?
michael		I'm serious, man, he's whacked.  He sold his own liver on the black market so he could buy new speakers.
cameron		Forget his reputation.  Do you think we've got a plan or not?
michael		Did she actually say she'd go out with you?
cameron		That's what I just said
michael		You know, if you do go out with Bianca, you'd be set.  You'd outrank everyone. Strictly A-list.  With me by your side.
cameron		I thought you hated those people.
michael		Hey -- I've gotta have a few clients when I get to Wall Street.
cameron		So now all we gotta do is talk to him.
michael		I'll let you handle that.
pepe		Some people like the Colombian, but it all depends on your acidity preference. Me?  I prefer East African and Indonesian.  You start the day with a Sumatra Boengie or maybe and Ethiopian Sidamo in your cup, you're that much farther ahead than someone drinkin' Cosia Rican or Kona -- you know what I mean?
cameron		Hey, there
cameron		 Later, then.
michael		Hey.
joey		Are you lost?
michael		Nope - just came by to chat
joey		We don't chat.
michael		Well, actually, I thought I'd run an idea by you.  You know, just to see if you're interested.
joey		We're not.
michael		 Hear me out.  You want Bianca don't you?
michael		 But she can't go out with you because her sister is this insane head case and no one will go out with her. right?
joey		Does this conversation have a purpose?
michael		So what you need to do is recruit a guy who'll go out with her.  Someone who's up for the job.
michael		Exactly
michael		Oh, hey, nothin' man   Purely good will on my part.
michael		 I have a dick on my face, don't I?
cameron		You got him involved?
michael		Like we had a choice?  Besides -- when you let the enemy think he's orchestrating the battle, you're in a position of power. We let him pretend he's calling the shots, and while he's busy setting up the plan, you have time to woo Bianca.
cameron		You're one brilliant guy
kat		So he has this huge raging fit about Sarah Lawrence and insists that I go to his male-dominated, puking frat boy, number one golf team school. I have no say at all.
mandella		William would never have gone to a state school.
kat		William didn't even go to high school
mandella		That's never been proven
kat		Neither has his heterosexuality.
kat		 Do you mind?
mandella		Does it matter?
kat		If I was Bianca, it would be, "Any school you want, precious.  Don't forget your tiara."
mandella		Janice Parker told me he was a roadie for Marilyn Manson.
patrick		Touch of the flu.
miss perky		I'm at a loss, then.  What should we talk about? Your year of absence?
patrick		How 'bout your sex life?
miss perky		Why don't we discuss your driving need to be a hemorrhoid?
miss perky		You weren't abused, you aren't stupid, and as far as I can tell, you're only slightly psychotic -- so why is it that you're such a fuck-up?
patrick		Well, you know -- there's the prestige of the job title... and the benefits package is pretty good...
miss perky		Fine.  Go do something repugnant and give us something to talk about next week.
mandella		Look, it's really easy.
trevor		You're a freedom fighter. Be proud, sister.
mandella		Your "people" are white, suburban high school boys who smoke too much hemp.  I have not freed you, Trevor.  Only you can free yourself.
bianca		C'esc ma tete. This is my head
cameron		Right.  See?  You're ready for the quiz.
bianca		I don't want to know how to say that though.  I want to know useful things. Like where the good stores are.  How much does champagne cost?  Stuff like Chat.  I have never in my life had to point out my head to someone.
cameron		That's because it's such a nice one.
bianca		Forget French.
bianca		 How is our little Find the Wench A Date plan progressing?
cameron		Well, there's someone I think might be --
bianca		Show me
bianca		Give me a sign when he walks by.  And don't point.
cameron		There.
bianca		Where?
cameron		I guess he didn't see me  Some other time --
bianca		My God, he's repulsive. He's so perfect!
patrick		Yeah
patrick		Two legs, nice rack...
joey		Yeah, whatever.  I want you to go out with her.
patrick		Sure, Sparky.  I'll get right on it.
patrick		You need money to take a girl out
joey		But you'd go out with her if you had the cake?
joey		You got it, Verona.  I pick up the tab, you do the honors.
patrick		You're gonna pay me to take out some girl?
joey		I can't date her sister until that one gets a boyfriend.  And that's the catch. She doesn't want a boyfriend.
patrick		I can't take a girl like that out on twenty bucks.
patrick		Fifty, and you've got your man.
patrick		There's a way to get a guy's attention.
kat		My mission in life.
kat		Oh, right.  Friday.
patrick		The night I take you to places you've never been before.  And back.
kat		Like where?  The 7-Eleven on Burnside? Do you even know my name, screwboy?
scurvy		So I guess the Jeep won't be getting a new Blaupunkt.
bianca		Have you ever considered a new look? I mean, seriously, you could have some potential buried under all this hostility.
kat		I have the potential to smack the crap out of you if you don't get out of my way.
bianca		Can you at least start wearing a bra?
patrick		Hey
kat		I don't really think you warrant that strong an emotion.
patrick		Then say you'll spend Dollar Night at the track with me.
patrick		Come on -- the ponies, the flat beer, you with money in your eyes, me with my hand on your ass...
kat		You -- covered in my vomit.
patrick		I was in the laundromat. I saw your car. Thought I'd say hi.
patrick		You're not a big talker, are you?
kat		Depends on the topic. My fenders don't really whip me into a verbal frenzy.
walter		My insurance does not cover PMS
kat		Then tell them I had a seizure.
walter		Is this about Sarah Lawrence? You punishing me?
kat		I thought you were punishing me.
walter		Why can't we agree on this?
kat		Because you're making decisions for me.
walter		As a parent, that's my right
kat		So what I want doesn't matter?
walter		You're eighteen.  You don't know what you want.  You won't know until you're forty-five and you don't have it.
walter		Christ!  I want a night to go by that I'm not staring a contraction in the face.
joey		When I shell out fifty, I expect results.
joey		Watching the bitch trash my car doesn't count as a date.
patrick		I got her under control. She just acts crazed in public to keep up the image.
joey		Let me put it to you this way, if you don't get any action, I don't get any action.  So get your ass on hers by the end of the week.
patrick		A hundred bucks a date.
patrick		Forget her sister, then.
joey		You better hope you're as smooth as you think you are, Verona.
cameron		La copine et I 'ami?  La diferance?
bianca		A "copine" is someone you can count on. An "ami" is someone who makes promises he can't keep.
cameron		You got something on your mind?
bianca		I counted on you to help my cause. You and that thug are obviously failing. Aren't we ever going on our date?
cameron		You have my word.  As a gentleman
bianca		You're sweet.
cameron		 How do you get your hair to look like that?
bianca		Eber's Deep Conditioner every two days. And I never, ever use a blowdryer without the diffuser attachment.
cameron		You know, I read an article about that.
bianca		You did?
patrick		Whatever the hell it is you're standin' there waitin' to say.
cameron		We wanted to talk to you about the plan.
michael		The situation is, my man Cameron here has a major jones for Bianca Stratford.
patrick		What is it with this chick?  She have three tits?
michael		I think I speak correctly when I say that Cameron's love is pure.  Purer than say -- Joey Dorsey's.
patrick		Dorsey can plow whoever he wants. I'm just in this for the cash.
michael		That's where we can help you.  With Kat.
michael		Patrick, Pat, you're not looking at the big picture.  Joey's just a pawn. We set this whole thing up so Cameron can get the girl.
patrick		You two are gonna help me tame the wild beast?
cameron		And he means that strictly in a non- prison-movie type of way.
cameron		This is it.  A golden opportunity. Patrick can ask Katarina to the party.
michael		In that case, we'll need to make it a school-wide blow out.
cameron		Will Bogey get bent?
michael		Are you kidding?  He'll piss himself with joy.  He's the ultimate kiss ass.
bianca		I think I like the white shirt
bianca		Expensive?
joey		Exactly  So, you going to Bogey Lowenbrau's thing on Saturday?
bianca		Hopefully.
joey		Good, 'cause I'm not gonna bother if you won't be there.
bianca		Have you heard about Bogey Lowenstein's party?
cameron		Sure have.
bianca		 I really, really, really wanna go, but I can't.  Not unless my sister goes.
cameron		I'm workin' on it. But she doesn't seem to be goin' for him.
cameron		 She's not a...
bianca		Lesbian?  No. I found a picture of Jared Leto in one of her drawers, so I'm pretty sure she's not harboring same-sex tendencies.
cameron		So that's the kind of guy she likes? Pretty ones?
bianca		Who knows?  All I've ever heard her say is that she'd dip before dating a guy that smokes.
cameron		All right.  What else is she partial to?
patrick		Lou, it's okay.  They're with me.
cameron		I've retrieved certain pieces of information on Miss Katarina Stratford I think you'll find helpful.
patrick		What?!
cameron		Number one.  She hates smokers
cameron		Her favorite uncle
patrick		Are you telling me I'm a -  "non-smoker"?
cameron		Another thing.  Bianca said that Kat likes -- pretty guys.
patrick		What?  You don't think I'm pretty?
cameron		Okay!  I wasn't sure
cameron		 Okay -- Likes:  Thai food, feminist prose, and "angry, stinky girl music of the indie-rock persuasion".
patrick		So what does that give me?  I'm supposed to buy her some noodles and a book and sit around listening to chicks who can't play their instruments?
michael		Ever been to Club Skunk?
patrick		Yeah.
cameron		Gigglepuss is playing there tomorrow night.
michael		Assail your ears for one night.
cameron		It's her favorite band.
michael		I also retrieved a list of her most recent CD purchases, courtesy of American Express.
michael		I prefer to think of it simply as an alternative to what the law allows.
bianca		Can you turn down the Screaming Menstrual Bitches?  I'm trying to study.
bianca		 Don't tell me you're actually going out?  On a school night, no less.
bianca		 Oh my God, does this mean you're becoming normal?
kat		It means that Gigglepuss is playing at Club Skunk and we're going.
bianca		 I don't know why I'm bothering to ask, but are you going to Bogey Lowenstein's party Saturday night?
kat		What do you think?
bianca		I think you're a freak.  I think you do this to torture me.  And I think you suck.
bruce		Take it easy on the guys in there.
bruce		Next time, leave the Bic at home, Skippy.
skippy		It's a bottle opener.
bruce		Didn't have you pegged for a Gigglepuss fan.  Aren't they a little too pre-teen belly-button ring for you?
patrick		Fan of a fan.  You see a couple of minors come in?
bruce		Never
patrick		Padua girls.  One tall, decent body. The other one kinda short and undersexed?
lead singer		Hello, out there.  We're Gigglepuss and we're from Olympia.
patrick		You know, these guys are no Bikini Kill or The Raincoats, but they're right up there.
kat		You know who The Raincoats are?
mandella		Has he importun'd you with love in honourable fashion?
mandella		They were.  I only wish William could have been here to witness the rebirth of punk rock with us.
kat		So true.
cameron		So, then she says that she almost didn't wear the Kenneth Coles with that dress because she thought she was mixing, you know, genres. And the fact that I noticed -- and I'm quoting here - "really meant something."
cameron		Hell, I've just been going over the whole thing in my head and -
michael		What?  We took bathes together when we were kids.
joey		What's your gig in all this?
cameron		I'm just the new guy.
joey		You better not fuck this up.  I'm heavily invested.
michael		Hey -- it's all for the higher good right?
cameron		Is it about me?
miss perky		You're completely demented.
patrick		 See you next week!
miss perky		You two know each other?
bianca		She's obviously not going.
bianca		Daddy, I --
walter		And where're you going?
bianca		If you must know, we were attempting to go to a small study group of friends.
walter		Otherwise known as an orgy?
bianca		It's just a party. Daddy, but I knew you'd forbid me to go since "Gloria Steinem" over there isn't going --
walter		Do you know about any party? Katarina?
bianca		Daddy, people expect me to be there!
walter		If Kat's not going, you're not going.
bianca		You're ruining my life'  Because you won't be normal, I can't be normal.
bianca		Bogey Lowenstein's party is normal, but you're too busy listening to Bitches Who Need Prozac to know that.
walter		What's a Bogey Lowenstein?
bianca		Can't you forget for just one night that you're completely wretched?
kat		At least I'm not a clouted fen- sucked hedge-pig.
bianca		Like I'm supposed to know what that even means.
kat		It's Shakespeare.  Maybe you've heard of him?
bianca		Yeah, he's your freak friend Mandella's boyfriend.  I guess since I'm not allowed to go out, I should obsess over a dead guy, too.
walter		Girls
kat		I know about the goddamn party.  I'm going.
walter		Oh, God.  It's starting.
bianca		It's just a party. Daddy.
walter		Wear the belly before you go.
bianca		Daddy, no!
walter		Just for a minute
walter		 I want you to realize the weight of your decisions.
bianca		You are so completely unbalanced.
walter		 Promise me you won't talk to any boys unless your sister is present.
bianca		Why?
walter		Because she'll scare them away.
bogey		Nice to see you.  Martini bar to the right, shots in the kitchen.
joey		Lookin' fresh tonight, Pussy-Kat
kat		Wait -- was that?-- Did your hairline just recede?
kat		Away.
guy		Drink up, sister.
patrick		What's this?
patrick		I say, do what you wanna do.
kat		Funny, you're the only one
bianca		Where did he go?  He was just here.
bianca		Joey.
cameron		Evening, ladies.
bianca		Hi.
cameron		Looks like things worked out tonight, huh?
bianca		You know Chastity?
cameron		I believe we share an art instructor
bianca		Would you mind getting me a drink, Cameron?
cameron		Certainly Pabst?  Old Milwaukee? RaiJieer?
bianca		Surprise me.
michael		Extremely unfortunate maneuver.
cameron		The hell is that?  What kind of 'guy just picks up a girl and carries her away while you're talking to her?
michael		Buttholus extremus.  But hey, you're making progress.
cameron		No, I ' m not.
cameron		 She used me!  She wants to go out with Dorsey.  Not me.  I'm an idiot!
joey		So yeah, I've got the Sears catalog thing going -- and the tube sock gig " that's gonna be huge.  And then I'm up for an ad for Queen Harry next week.
bianca		Queen Harry?
joey		It's a gay cruise line, but I'll be, like, wearing a uniform and stuff.
bianca		Neat...
joey		My agent says I've got a good shot at being the Prada guy next year.
bianca		I'll be right back.
bianca		He practically proposed when he found out we had the same dermatologist. I mean. Dr. Bonchowski is great an all, but he's not exactly relevant party conversation.
bianca		Combination.  I don't know -- I thought he'd be different.  More of a gentleman...
bianca		Sometimes I wonder if the guys we're supposed to want to go out with are the ones we actually want to go out with, you know?
kat		Bianca, I need to talk to you -- I need to tell you --
bianca		 I really don't think I need any social advice from you right now.
kat		I want another one
joey		My man
patrick		Do what?
joey		Get her to act like a human
patrick		Okay?
kat		I'm fine. I'm
patrick		You're not okay.
kat		I just need to lie down for awhile
patrick		Uh, uh. You lie down and you'll go to sleep
kat		I know, just let me sleep
patrick		What if you have a concussion? My dog went to sleep with a concussion and woke up a vegetable. Not that I could tell the difference...
kat		Okay, I'll just sleep but stay awake, okay?
patrick		C'mon, let's walk
patrick		Cameron, I'm a little busy
cameron		It's off. The whole thing.
patrick		What 're you talking about?
cameron		She's partial to Joey, not me
patrick		Cameron -- do you like the girl?
cameron		Sure
kat		This is so patronizing.
patrick		Leave it to you to use big words when you're shitfaced.
kat		Why 're you doing this?
patrick		I told you
kat		You don't care if I die
patrick		Sure, I do
kat		Why?
patrick		Because then I'd have to start taking out girls who like me.
kat		Like you could find one
patrick		See that?  Who needs affection when I've got blind hatred?
kat		Just let me sit down.
patrick		How's that?
kat		Who?
patrick		Dorsey.
kat		I hate him.
patrick		I know.  It'd have to be a pretty big deal to get you to mainline tequila. You don't seem like the type.
kat		 Hey man. . .  You don ' t think I can be "cool"?  You don't think I can be "laid back" like everyone else?
kat		You know what they say
patrick		No. What do they say?
kat		 What?
patrick		I thought you were...
kat		Go away
bianca		Dinner taste better on the way out?
bianca		 I don't get you.  You act like you're too good for any of this, and then you go totally apeshit when you get here.
kat		You're welcome.
patrick		Cute
joey		A bunch of us are going to Jaret's house.  Wanna come?
bianca		I have to be home in twenty minutes.
cameron		 Have fun tonight?
bianca		Tons
bianca		 Cameron?
bianca		 Do you think you could give me a ride home?
patrick		I'm driving, so I get to pick the tunes.
kat		It's my car.
patrick		And I'm in control of it.
kat		But it's Gigglepuss - I know you like them.  I saw you there.
patrick		Busy
kat		Were you in jail?
patrick		Maybe.
kat		No, you weren't
patrick		Then why'd you ask?
kat		Why'd you lie?
patrick		Do what?
kat		This.
patrick		Start a band?
patrick		You don't strike me as the type that would ask permission.
kat		Oh, so now you think you know me?
patrick		I'm gettin' there
kat		The only thing people know about me is that I'm "scary".
kat		He just wants me to be someone I'm not.
patrick		Who?
kat		BIANCA
patrick		No offense, but you're sister is without.  I know everyone likes her and all, but ...
kat		You know -- you're not as vile as I thought you were.
patrick		So, I'll see you in school
cameron		I looked for you back at the party, but you always seemed to be "occupied".
bianca		 I was?
cameron		You never wanted to go out with 'me, did you?
bianca		 Well, no...
cameron		Then that's all you had to say.
bianca		But
cameron		You always been this selfish?
cameron		Just because you're beautiful, doesn't mean you can treat people like they don't matter.
cameron		 And I'm back in the saddle.
derek		Kat, my lady, you sway to the rhythm of my heart.
clem		Yippe kai-aye, bra.  Dance for me, cowgirl.
derek		Because the deputy meant him no harm, my friend.  It was only the sheriff that was the oppressor.
joey		Kat, babe, you were on fire.
clem		Ms. Blaise, can I get the bathroom pass?  Damn if Shakespeare don't act as a laxative on my person.
mandella		You went to the party?  I thought we were officially opposed to suburban social activity.
kat		I didn't have a choice.
mandella		You didn't have a choice?  Where's Kat and what have you done with her?
kat		I did Bianca a favor and it backfired.
kat		I got drunk.  I puked.  I got rejected. It was big fun.
patrick		Hey
michael		So you got cozy with she who stings?
patrick		No - I've got a sweet-payin' job that I'm about to lose.
cameron		What'd you do to her?
patrick		I don ' t know.  I decided not to nail her when she was too drunk to remember it.
michael		I'm on it
michael		Hey there.  Tired of breathing?
mandella		Yeah.  I guess.
mandella		You think?
mandella		Who could refrain that had a heart to love and in that heart, courage to make ' B love known?
michael		So, listen... I have this friend
cameron		She hates you with the fire of a thousand suns .  That's a direct quote
patrick		She just needs time to cool off I'll give it a day.
cameron		She kissed me.
joey		Don't talk to me about the sweetest date.  That little halo Bianca is gonna be prone and proven on prom night.  Six virgins in a row.
patrick		I don't know, Dorsey. ..the limo.-the flowers.  Another hundred for the tux --
joey		Enough with the Barbie n' Ken shit. I know.
kat		Can you even imagine?  Who the hell would go to this a bastion of commercial excess?
mandella		Well, I guess we're not, since we don't have dates .
kat		Listen to you!  You sound like Betty, all pissed off because Archie is taking Veronica.
kat		You ' re looking at this from the wrong perspective.  We're making a statement.
bianca		 Hi, Joey.
joey		You're concentrating awfully hard considering it's gym class.
bianca		You know the deal.  I can ' t go if Kat doesn't go --
joey		Your sister is going.
bianca		Since when?
patrick		Excuse me, have you seen The Feminine Mystique?  I lost my copy.
patrick		I heard there was a poetry reading.
kat		You 're so --
patrick		Pleasant?
kat		Unwelcome.
patrick		Unwelcome?  I guess someone still has her panties in a twist.
kat		Don't for one minute think that you had any effect whatsoever on my panties.
patrick		So what did I have an effect on ?
kat		Other than my upchuck reflex? Nothing.
patrick		You were right. She's still pissed.
michael		Sweet love, renew thy force!
patrick		Man -- don't say shit like that to  me. People can hear you.
cameron		 You humiliated the woman! Sacrifice yourself on the altar of dignity and even the score.
michael		Best case scenario, you're back on the payroll for awhile.
patrick		What's the worst?
cameron		You get the girl.
patrick		If I go down. I'm takin' her with me
patrick		"I'd hide it to myself.  And never talk about it.  And didn't I go and shout it when you walked into the room --"
patrick		Flog me.
kat		Sir, I'd like to state for the record that Mr. Verona ' s current incarceration is unnecessary.  I never filed a complaint.
kat		But, Mr. Chapin, I hardly think a simple serenade warrants a week of detention.  There are far more hideous acts than off-key singing being performed by the student body on a regular basis.
kat		Wait, Mr. Chapin.  There's something I've always wanted to show you.
kat		These.
kat		Thank you, Mr. Chapin.
kat		He left!  I sprung the dickhead and he cruised on me.
patrick		I guess I never told you I'm afraid of heights.
kat		 C'mon.  It's not that bad
patrick		Try lookin' at it from this angle
kat		Put your right foot there --
patrick		Forget it.  I'm stayin'.
kat		You want me to climb up and show you how to get down?
patrick		 Maybe.
kat		You shit!
kat		The Partridge Family?
patrick		I figured it had to be something ridiculous to win your respect.  And piss you off.
kat		Good call.
patrick		So how'd you get Chapin to look the other way?
kat		I dazzled him with my wit
kat		Yeah, well, don't let it get out
patrick		So what's your excuse?
kat		Acting the way we do.
patrick		Yes
kat		I don't like to do what people expect. Then they expect it all the time and they get disappointed when you change.
patrick		So if you disappoint them from the start, you're covered?
kat		Something like that
patrick		Then you screwed up
kat		How?
patrick		You never disappointed me.
kat		For. . . ?
kat		State trooper?
patrick		Fallacy.
kat		The duck?
patrick		Hearsay.
kat		I know the porn career's a lie.
patrick		Do you?
kat		Tell me something true.
patrick		I hate peas.
kat		No -- something real.  Something no one else knows.
kat		What?
patrick		No one else knows
kat		You're amazingly self-assured. Has anyone ever told you that?
patrick		Go to the prom with me
kat		Is that a request or a command?
patrick		You know what I mean
kat		No.
patrick		No what?
kat		No, I won't go with you
patrick		Why not?
kat		Because I don't want to. It's a stupid tradition.
patrick		People won't expect you to go...
kat		Why are you doing this?
kat		All of it -- what's in it for you?
patrick		So I have to have a motive to be with you?
kat		You tell me.
patrick		You need therapy.  Has anyone ever told you that?
patrick		cover that up
bianca		Quick question -- are you going to the prom?
bianca		Then Guillermo says, "If you go any lighter, you're gonna look like an extra
cameron		No...
bianca		do you listen to this crap?
cameron		What crap?
bianca		Me.  This endless ...blonde babble. I'm like, boring myself.
cameron		Thank God!  If I had to hear one more story about your coiffure...
cameron		 I figured you'd get to the good stuff eventually.
bianca		What good stuff?
cameron		The "real you".
bianca		Like my fear of wearing pastels?
bianca		 You know how sometimes you just become this "persona"?  And you don't know how to quit?
cameron		 No
bianca		Okay -- you're gonna need to learn how to lie.
trevor		You're gonna look splendiferous in that, Mandella.
sharon		Would you rather be ravished by a pirate or a British rear admiral?
walter		Pirate -- no question.
bianca		Daddy, I want to discuss the prom with you. It's tomorrow night --
walter		The prom?  Kat has a date?
bianca		No, but
walter		It's that hot rod Joey, right? That ' s who you want me to bend my rules for?
bianca		He's not a "hot rod".  Whatever that is.
walter		You're not going unless your sister goes.  End of story.
bianca		Fine.  I see that I'm a prisoner in my own house.  I'm not a daughter. I'm a possession!
walter		 You know what happens at proms?
sharon		They'll dance, they'll kiss, they'll come home.  Let her go.
walter		Kissing?  Is that what you think happens?  Kissing isn't what keeps me up to my elbows in placenta all day.
bianca		Come in.
bianca		Like you care.
kat		I do care. But I'm a firm believer in doing something for your own reasons, not someone else ' s .
bianca		I wish I had that luxury. I'm the only sophomore that got asked to the prom and I can't go, because you won ' t.
kat		Joey never told you we went out, did he?
bianca		What?
kat		In 9th.  For a month
bianca		 Why?
bianca		But you hate Joey
kat		Now I do.  Back then, was a different story.
bianca		As in...
kat		He said everyone was doing it.  So I did it.
bianca		You did what?
bianca		But
kat		After that, I swore I'd never do anything just because "everyone else" was doing it.  And I haven't since. Except for Bogey's party, and my stunning gastro-intestinal display --
bianca		 Why didn't you tell me?
kat		I wanted to let you make up your own mind about him.
bianca		No. you didn't!  If you really thought I could make my own decisions, you would've let me go out with him instead of helping Daddy hold me hostage.
kat		That's not
bianca		I'm not stupid enough to repeat your mistakes.
kat		I guess I thought I was protecting you.
bianca		God, you're just like him! Just keep me locked away in the dark, so I can't experience anything for myself
kat		Not all experiences are good, Bianca. You can't always trust the people you want to.
bianca		I guess I'll never know, will I?
bianca		Come in.
kat		Feel like shopping?
walter		What do you wanna watch?  We've got crap, crap, crap or crap
bianca		Hi, Mommy.  WALTER
bianca		You like?  My date should be here in five.
walter		I'm missing something.
bianca		I have a date, Daddy.  And he ' s not a captain of oppression like some men we know.
cameron		Wow
bianca		Let's go.
walter		But -- who -- what --?
kat		Hey, guys. I'm going to the prom. See you in a few.
walter		What just happened?
sharon		Your daughters went to the prom.
walter		Did I have anything to say about it?
walter		That ' s what I thought
walter		late
kat		How'd you get a tux at the last minute?
patrick		It's Scurvy's.  His date got convicted. Where'd you get the dress?
kat		It's just something I had.  You know
kat		Look, I'm  -- sorry -- that I questioned your motives.  I was wrong.
patrick		No prob.
kat		are you ready?
kat		Quite the ostentatious display
patrick		Look, Clem even wore his good boots
mandella		Have you seen him?
kat		Who?
mandella		William - he asked me to meet him here.
kat		Oh, honey -- tell me we haven't' progressed to full-on hallucinations.
bianca		 What are you doing here?
bianca		I did.
patrick		My grandmother's .
kat		What?
patrick		That's where I was last year.  She'd never lived alone -- my grandfather died -- I stayed with her.  I wasn't in jail, I don't know Marilyn Manson, and I've never slept with a Spice Girl.  I spent a year sitting next to my grandma on the couch watching Wheel of Fortune.  End of story.
kat		That ' s completely adorable!
patrick		It gets worse -- you still have your freshman yearbook?
joey		What's Bianca doing here with that cheese dick?  I didn't pay you to let some little punk ass snake me.
cameron		Admit it.  You lost.  Be a man.
joey		I'm not your brother, white boy.
bianca		That's for making my date bleed
bianca		 That's for my sister.
bianca		 And that's for me.
cowboy		And that's for the fourth grade, asshole.
patrick		Wait I...
kat		You were paid to take me out!  By -- the one person I truly hate.  I knew it was a set-up!
patrick		It wasn't like that.
kat		Really?  What was it like?  A down payment now, then a bonus for sleeping with me?
patrick		I didn't care about the money.
kat		You are so not what I thought you were.
bianca		Are you sure you don't want to come with us?  It'll be fun.
kat		I ' m sure .
bianca		You looked beautiful last night, you know.
kat		So did you
cameron		She okay?
bianca		I hope so.
walter		Was that your sister?
kat		Yeah.  She left with some bikers Big ones.  Full of sperm.
walter		Funny.
walter		 I don't understand the allure of dehydrated food.  Is this something I should be hip to?
kat		No, Daddy.
walter		 So tell me about this dance. Was it fun?
kat		Parts of it.
walter		Which parts?
kat		The part where Bianca beat the hell out of some guy.
walter		Bianca did what?
kat		What's the matter?  Upset that I rubbed off on her?
walter		No -- impressed.
walter		 You know, fathers don't like to admit that their daughters are capable of running their own lives.  It means we've become spectators.  Bianca still lets me play a few innings.  You've had me on the bleachers for years.  When you go to Sarah Lawrence, I won't even be able to watch the game.
walter		Oh, Christ.  Don't tell me you've changed your mind.  I already sent 'em a check.
cameron		I'd like to express my apologies.
kat		For what?
cameron		 I didn't mean for you to get -- When Bianca asked me to find you a boyfriend, I had no idea it would turn out so -- ugly. I would never have  done anything to compromise your - - -
teacher		Who can tell me at what point Lucentio admits his deception?
bianca		Let go!
kat		You set me up.
bianca		I just wanted --
kat		What? To completely damage me?  To send me to therapy forever? What?
bianca		No! I just wanted
miss perky		Ladies?  Shall we take a trip to my office?
miss perky		So you're the real bitch
bianca		Yes!  Okay?  Yes -- I'm the real bitch. I wanted her to get a boyfriend so I could.  Apparently, this makes me a horrible person.  I'm sorry.
bianca		 I swear -- I didn't know about the money.  I didn't even know Joey was involved.  I would never intentionally hurt you, Kat.
kat		Am I supposed to feel better? Like, right now?  Or do I have some time to think about it?
bianca		 We'll be getting back to you.
bianca		Is that woman a complete fruit-loop or is it just me?
kat		It's just you.
kat		I'11 go
kat		I hate the way you talk to me/ and the way you cut your hair/ I hate the way you drive my car/ I hate it when you stare.
kat		A Fender Strat. You bought this?
patrick		I thought you could use it. When you start your band.
kat		Is that right?
patrick		Yeah, but then I fucked up. I fell for her.
kat		You can't just buy me a guitar every time you screw up, you know.
patrick		I know
kat		And don't just think you can
kat		Why is my veggie burger the only burnt object on this grill?
patrick		Because I like to torture you.
kat		Oh, Bianca?  Can you get me my freshman yearbook?
patrick		Don ' t you even dare. . .
cameron		They do to!
bianca		They do not!
cameron		Can someone please tell her that sunflower seeds come from sunflowers?
mandella		I can't remember a word of Shakespeare right now. Isn't that weird?
kat		You're freaked over this, aren't you?
bianca		He's more than freaked.  He's froke
kat		I'd like to call your attention to Patrick Verona's stunning bad-ass look of 1995 ---
bianca		Patrick -- is that- a.
kat		Perm?
patrick		Ask my attorney.
****Dialogues from script :127_hours.txt****

aron		Nearly missed it!
aron		Hey. Are you doing the east pike? Can I come along with you for a while? The girls don't reply, just look at each other.
kristi		 Sure, I'm Kristi.
megan		Megan.
aron		Nice to meet you. What a day.
kristi		It's beautiful.
aron		Did you bike or come straight from the trail head?
kristi		We left the car there. Pretty quiet.
aron		I left mine at the Horseshoe Canyon and biked here.
megan		You biked from Horseshoe? That's 20 miles or more.
aron		17 and windy.
megan		Yeah, you surprised us, sneaking up like that.
aron		Sorry.
megan		It's kind of nervy seeing a lone guy walking up to you in the middle of the desert.
aron		Yeah, I know, I mean there's no one around for 50 miles.
kristi		... and suddenly there's a guy right behind you and `wait a minute, why is he wearing a HOCKEY
aron		Let me guess... You're here for the paintings or the Cathedral?
kristi		The Cathedral? We've got a bit disorientated and the map isn't great. Where is it?
aron		The climb's a little tricky but it's worth it.
aron		There's thousands of holds but you can't see them until you're almost upside down and then they just keep appearing... it's a bit of a act of faith so I'll go first... take off as much as you dare as there's a bit of a surprise at the other end...
aron		I swear I won't look but I swear you won't care when you get out here...
megan		Are you ok? ARON!
kristi		Of course he's ok. Listen to him. Aron fills the cathedral dome with his version of a Phish song at the top of his voice. Kristi strips to her underwear and traverses away from Megan.
megan		We've got to go again. And film it!
megan		I really can't eat all this chocolate by myself... Never mind, yes I can!
kristi		So have you got a girlfriend, Aron?
aron		Well, there's not really anyone special.
megan		Ah, so there's lots of girlfriends.
kristi		There's always a girl, you just don't know it yet.
megan		Yeah, we meet lots of guys and there's always a girl.
aron		Long story.
kristi		With lots of characters in it.  CUT TO:
megan		Wow, highest person in Colorado.
aron		Well I figure no one else is mad enough to climb in the winter.
kristi		... you can be the highest person on the continent!
megan		Didn't you see it?
aron		What? No.
megan		Yeah, it's an old cattle guardian's house - the roof's caved in and someone spray-painted MOTEL 6 on the side. Smelled weird though.
aron		Just like a MOTEL 6 then?
kristi		Why are you on your own?
aron		Solitude. Great tunes. Empty mind. He indicates the wilderness.
megan		Phish?
kristi		Not those guys from...
aron		Yeah, I know, I know.   See, that's why I'm on my own. Nobody likes me or my band. They laugh as he goofs for them. He gathers all their packaging and stuffs it in his backpack.
aron		I'm not certified yet but that's what I want to do.
megan		An illegal instructor.
aron		It's hard to get the hours to
kristi		Well, we'll sign your time-card today.
aron		Great. Now put your ass on my head.
kristi		Okay but don't look and no grabbing now, if I do...
megan		Oh whatever, you love it.
kristi		Shhh!
aron		 You'll have to chimney down a little ways - like here, watch - one foot on each wall then squat onto your right heel, now your butt's on the wall, so you can move your right foot across, now put your left foot under your butt lower down and scootch your butt down - watch that black part, it's slick, slime, try not to get it on your shoes - if you can get to these bomber handholds here it's like an elevator shaft and just think friction to control the slide. This is a keeper so always have someone at the bottom to boost you out. He looks up to them.
megan		I didn't understand any of that.
aron		Why don't you come with me to the Big Drop Rappel? I can give you a lift back to your car.
kristi		How far is it? He shows them on the map.
aron		About another 8 miles or so, I think.
megan		You'll never get out before dark.
aron		No, I really got to do this. Anyway I've my miner's lamp.
megan		You don't climb at night, do you?
aron		No, it's great for seeing snakes in hand holds. Can I get a picture then? They pose with raven feathers in their hair.
kristi		Yeah, we'd like that. What time?
megan		Where?
aron		Drive on the east road and about 40 miles out there's a huge inflatable Scooby Doo. You can't miss it. Turn off and it's about 2 miles down that track. Starts late and it'll go right thru. Lots of cheek kissing and his last picture of them...
kristi		Come on Aron, hike out with us - we'll go get your truck, hang out and have a beer.
aron		No, I really got to do this.
kristi		Okay. Scooby Doo, yeah?
aron		That's the one. I'll have 3 cold beers waiting for us.
megan		12 cold beers!  CUT TO:  EXT. CANYON FORK. DAY. POV VARIOUS.
aron		Easy Aron, easy now. He keeps moving, descending still, but a little more circumspect. He lets the change of pace allow him to whip round his pack and with the practice of thousands of times selects and plays a CD without stopping, slipping the headphones over his head.  CUT TO:
cd recording		Good evening Las Vegas... are you having a good time? Are you ready for PHISH! Whether we are or not, the first song begins on a wave of adoration from his fellow Phish fans. He sings along.  CUT TO: 
phototime		He snaps the log now arching above him well out of reach.
aron		Won't be coming back this way.
aron		Yep.
aron		FUCK, get your hand out of there!
aron		FUCK! What the fuck? How the fuck did you get your hand trapped by a fucking boulder? Its crushed, it's fucking dying man! He reaches up and touches the trail of blood, hair and skin left on the canyon wall as the rock pushed him to where he is. Looks under boulder, no blood - check. [He hears the crowd cheering on his headphones. It's been playing throughout. He switches it off]
aron		Not good. He blows the whole lot into our face with a mighty gust.
aron		Shit!
aron		Sweet.  CUT TO: 
mark		Wow, look at the size of this one. There's no cliffs or mountains anywhere near. We look at Mark's pleasant, unremarkable face for far too long as he looks around -
aron		Cool. He picks it off his arm and places it on top of the rock next to where he's working. It's a grain of sand on the seashore but it's something.
aron		Aahhhhh.
raven		Caw-caw.  CUT TO:
aron		Caw-caw.
rana		OK - lights off and line up alongside me. They turn off their vehicles' headlights as she draws a long line in the sand and they join her standing on one side of it.
aron		It's three-oh-five on Sunday. This marks my twenty-four-hour mark of being stuck in Blue John Canyon above the Big Drop. My name is Aron Ralston. My parents are Donna and Larry Ralston of Englewood, Colorado. Whoever finds this, please make an attempt to get this to them. Be sure of it. I would appreciate it. He takes long blinks and seems to avoid looking at himself though the screen is facing him. He looks alarmed and wide eyed, startled, in contrast to his slow slurred delivery.  ARON  So... I was hiking Blue John Canyon yesterday... and this happened. He pulls the camera round to show where his forearm and wrist disappear into the horrifyingly skinny gap between the chockstone and the wall. As he does that we  INTERCUT WITH:  INT/EXT. VARIOUS. CANYON. DAY.  Flashes of the accident-almost in silhouette - like an animatic side view. It freezes just before the moment of entombment.  CUT TO:
aron		What you're looking at there is my arm, going into the rock... and there it is, stuck. It's been without circulation for 24 hours.   
aron		So the way I see it... there's kind of four things happening here... I tried to move it with some rigging... useless... and I tried chipping away at the rock... I think part of the problem is, is that my hand is actually supporting the rock. Which means every time I chip away the rock moves a bit and settles onto my hand again. I can't feel it happening but microscopically, it seems to be, because the little gap over there between the rock and the wall seems to be getting smaller. And this chockstone is the hardest thing here.
aron		So the third thing left was to cut my arm off.
pause		 ARON  Which means I'm waiting for someone to come along. He summons up the guts to let the evidence out.
aron		   HELP!!! HELP!!!! OVER HERE!!!  HEEELLLPP!!! Freaky. We just see an arbitrary view of the rock and sky on the video camera, maybe with a bit of elbow, but we hear his desperation, screaming at no one, distorting on the tiny speaker.  CUT TO:
aron		No one's coming Aron.
aron		God, I am praying to you for guidance. I'm trapped in Blue John Canyon - you probably know that - and I don't know what I am supposed to do. I've tried everything I can think of. I need some new ideas. Please show me a sign. PAUSE - Just his breath. He switches on the head lamp and the inside of the bag explodes with light. There's enough light for any kind of heaven but it's just Aron in Blue John Canyon. He looks around his bag. He stops. Silence. Only his breathing to listen to. Heart rate... fast... too fast. Light off.
aron		Still not sure. I'll see you Tuesday.
aron		Always do.  CUT TO:
girl		That was your Mom! And your Dad called. Call him. We're going. See you next week. Oh, and Rana called.  CUT TO:
aron		It's freaking me out looking at myself so I hope you guys are OK with this
pause		 CUT TO:
aron		It's Monday - all day - bummer. I spent the morning trying to create a 6:1 system ration and lift the boulder but friction between the rope and carabiners is dissipating every bit of force I apply.   
aron		There's a raven flies overhead, I clocked it at 8.15. I'll bet it's there tomorrow too. I'll film it for you tomorrow
aron		I have about one hundred and fifty millilitres of water left. That's four ounces. I can't believe it but I peed twice today, within a few minutes of each other. How is this possible? It's two days since I peed, I'm dehydrated and I had to go so quickly I forgot to save the first. I saved the second in the CamelBak. Will I drink it? It smells foul, and hot but it'll settle. And I can chill it in the sand in the night. It's like Polar winter here for nine hours.
aron		No number twos. Which will disappoint my insect friends. They're gonna have to wait. The sunlight appears down here for a few hours. I get 15 minutes of it at 9.35... and apart from chipping away uselessly at this rock that's pretty much my morning routine.
aron		I keep chipping at the rock but just to generate warmth and give me something to do. I think it's making it worse. I know it's settling more on my arm as I remove material from it. The area where I chipped flakes off yesterday has already rotated down onto my arm.
aron		The blades are too blunt even to break the skin. I guess that's the chipping. It's not even a proper Leatherman. It's a knock-off one we got free in a gift pack with a torch... Mom gave it to me.
aron		I've been thinking about what my friend Rob in Aspen says to me several... frequently.. Several times that, confusingly, 'It's not what you do but who you are'. I kind of got hung up on that a lot, because I always thought who I was, was very much wrapped up with what I did. That I was happy because of the things that I did that made me happy. If things you do make you happy, then they can also make you unhappy. I think that's why I found myself being as ambitious and energetic - The wind interrupts him and he shivers.  ARON  It's cold... this place is an ice- box at night... And killing winds. 
pause		 ARON 
aron		No. No. Don't.
aron		See you later... ... swallows quickly 2 'spoons' of urine without disturbing the sediment. Tangy and bitter, the saltiness makes him wince.  CUT TO:
aron		 Fuck a nut, Aron. Pay fucking attention - look what you did? He stares at the stain - with all the dirt on his shorts it's already paste. He screws the lid on slowly and can barely be bothered to lift his lens into his mouth.
aron		Good morning everyone! It's 6:45 Tuesday morning in BJ Canyon. The weather is great! I figure by now that Leona, my housemate - Hi Leona! - has missed me hopefully since I didn't show up last night. Another hour and a half they'll miss me for not showing up for work. Hi Brion at work! Best case scenario is they notify the police and after a 24 hour hold they file a report, a missing persons report. Which means noon tomorrow it's official that I'm gone. I do still have the tiniest bit of water left. Well, actually, I've resorted...I've had a couple pretty good gulps of urine that I saved in my Camelbak. I sorta let it distill...it tastes like hell. So it's 70 hours since I left on my bike from Horseshoe Trailhead during which time I have consumed 3 liters of water and a couple mouthfuls of piss.
pause		Still, I'd get a drink. He shudders, it's ridiculous. Then composes himself during a long blink and looks straight at the camera.
aron		Ready for lift-off. He bounces his full weight in the stirrups and pulls on the haul line. It looks a better set up.
aron		Whoa, that's the bone. He pulls the knife out opening the wound more. There's barely any blood. He pokes at the gash with the tool.
aron		Shit missed it. 8:31AM. He's late and I still missed it.
violently with		Temperature 57 - shivers, like 56 - 55  chattering,
racking his		A figure starts body with a a small fire to furious comfort Aron. vengeance. Perfect for bacon and beans. He pisses again 02.02=>03.03=>04.04 ARON: Huge luminous figures on There's the "I can't believe the inside of the black interior Scooby this..." bag. Doo waving at a decants the table in front sediment out of V.O: There you are of it piled to Camelbak. The creaking point stench of the with margaritas sediment makes the excess runs him retch and jerk down the table away. Where is all legs. This coming from?
burrito washed		Did that make sense? down with a swig of urine, He switches off and applies winces and lip balm. swallows somehow. ARON: He looks at it and bites a `That's it. bit off. Masticates it on I'm on the and on... Chewing. urine diet now. Well, The chockstone it's no waits and Aron's slurpee...' foot kicks and then lands and they fall together.
aron chipping		away desultory A slit of light in blackness reveals Jon in work clothes. Aron licks A light switch flicks on and moisture thin metal shelves full of condensation cleaning supplies appear He takes shots from inside the on 3 sides, industrial mop, of himself bag. His head- Aron in his canyon gear, with his still 
turns always		Rana's face is remaining in huge on the inside the light.An of his head bag, smiling accelerating at him. Her face in huge carousel of scale compared to his head. yellow warmth.
aron		God, it's Aron again. I still need some help. It's getting bad here. I'm out of water and food. Listen. Give me the strength not to do anything against myself. I want to see this through, whatever. A rumbling thunderous sound grows and the inside of the bag begins to bear the image of the top of the canyon at dawn but crumpled like paper, creased like the bag [BUT STRETCHED ACROSS 2 SCREENS]. The noise grows and grows...
aron		Out of date. May Day. Not dead. He smirks.
aron		No raven today. Everything's fucked. Sonja... if you still want me to play at your wedding... there's a tape in a box in the basement of Mom and Dad's Lounge. It's me 1993 or 1994. We hear the music. Mozart, Beethoven, Bach, Chopin - he can hear it as he played it until...
voice		I did this Aron. I created this. The boulder did what it was here to do. It was waiting for me but it did the only natural thing it could do. I chose to come here, I chose to do this descent by myself. I chose not to tell anyone where I was going. I chose to turn away from the women who were there to keep me from getting in this trouble. I wanted it to be like this. Look how far I came to find this spot.
aron		I hate this rock. The rage blooms purple in his mind.
pow		Like a gunshot in the canyon, the bone breaks. The sound ricochets. He rises and sees the bone pushing up violently against the skin. He feels it. It's a serrated, but clean, successful break. Still he says nothing.
bang		A second gun shot smashes around the canyon. He's sweating heavily and yet euphoric, possessed. He checks the underneath of the arm. It's broken too. Around the same place. He can rotate his forearm like a shaft inside a housing. Giving himself no time to wake up he grabs the knife, looks at the watch-  CUT TO:
aron		Ok Aron, here we go. You're in it now.
erik		We are the Mejers from Holland. At the start of the trailhead we talked to a ranger who told us about a car that was parked in the area already for several days and that the owner might be missing in the canyon. We joked that we would keep our eyes open and that we would try to find him. After a hike of 5.3 kilometres to the Great Gallery  where we took some pictures, we returned and suddenly heard a noise behind us, and after that a voice that cried "Help, I need help". Monique and I immediately realized that this had to be the missing person.
erik		We are the Mejers from Holland. You should stop and rest.
aron		No, we need to keep hiking. We need a helicopter - who can run fastest?- You, go now fast. Take him.
erik		They told us you were here.
aron		Who? Who told you?
erik		The police at the parking lot
aron		Do you have a phone?
erik		There's no signal for miles. Nobody for 6 days and then like London buses another couple appears. They too are confronted by:
aron		Do you have a cell phone?
wayne		No. I'm Wayne. I have some medical training.
aron		Is it ok for me to drink so much water?
wayne		Sure so long as it doesn't make you vomit. Aron drinks more and more, he overhears...
aron		I gotta stop and empty my shoes. You'll have to tie my shoe lace. As he sits his head slumps forward. He's absolutely motionless. Wayne and Erik try to talk to him but he can barely hear them. A pop song spins round and round distantly.
pilot		Are you Aron?
aron		Yes I am. Can I get a lift?
aron		I'm gonna make a terrible mess of your seat.
pilot		Just get in buddy. We're all looking for you.
aron		Thank you for bringing me back. The most senior of the burly men says,
burly man		That's all your miracle days used up kid. You need to rest. You can stand everyone a beer later. Aron is greeted by medics. Needles. Care. Machines. Tubes.
aron		Will you look after this for me please?
aron		Mom.
mom		My boy. My only one. There you are. She strokes his head so gently.
aron		Hey Mom.
mom		How are you feeling?
aron		OK. Are you okay...
mom		You've been asleep for 2 days. We are so lucky... She's a decent woman and a devoted mum. She looks weary, worn out with worry and love for her boy.
aron		Mom, I'm sorry I scared you.
rana		OK - he's got 3 vegetarian hotdogs and the tickets and he'll be
aron		So are you guys ok with me?
rana		Yeah. We split up a while back when you were in hospital.
aron		Christine told me.
rana		 Is that what this is about?
aron		Yeah.
rana		What about the climbing? Aron reaches in his bag and pulls out his scary looking prosthetic arm / axe. He clinks the points together. She doesn't laugh, maybe a smile.
aron		I'm gonna finish the 49ers this winter or next.
rana		 Well, all I can't figure out is what took you so long to cut it off and get one of these. They both laugh. But he also answers.
aron		Rana, before I did it I was hallucinating, I saw this child, a little blond boy -
rana		 Not Jesus please...
rana		No Aron, it's not.
rana		You know, everyone who cares for you, a little bit of them dies each time you go back.
****Dialogues from script :12_years_a_slave.txt****

anne		Solomon... Solomon, turning back to his wife with a broad smile waving her forward:
solomon		Come, Anne. Jump.
alonzo margaret		Jump. You can make it. I've done it. You can make it.
anne		I will not ruin my dress. Catch me!  Solomon moves close, holds out his arms. Yet, there's still just a bit of mischievousness in his eyes. Anne gives her husband a lightly stern look to which Solomon replies.
solomon		I will catch you, Anne.
anne		You will.
solomon		Mr. Parker.
parker		Mr. Northup. Mrs. Northup.
solomon		We are in need of a fresh carry all for the Mrs's travels.
parker		A year's passed? Off to Sandy Hill?
anne		I am. Using a long pole, Mr. Parker fetches down a CARRY ALL from an upper shelf.
parker		Something to suit your style, but sturdy enough for the forty miles round trip. Handing the Bag to Anne, she is immediately taken by it.
anne		It's beautiful.
anne		We will take it. Children, come see what your father has just purchased for me. As the children run over - chattering excitedly about the new gift - they RUN PAST JASPER who has quietly entered the store. At the checkout counter sits a portrait of WILLIAM HENRY HARRISON, the edges draped in black crepe. Before the book sits a LEDGER. Mr. Parker asks of Solomon:
parker		If you would sign our condolence book. My hope is to find a way to forward it to the Widow Harrison. Sad days for the nation.
solomon		Yes, certainly. Poor Mrs. Harris and her children. I hope brighter times ahead.
parker		A moment, sir, and you will be assisted.
solomon		If we could discuss the price...
parker		Forgive me, Mrs. Northup. A customer waits. Welcome, sir. To Jasper, with good nature:
solomon		Shop well, but mind your wallet.
parker		Ignore the gentleman's nonsense. Now, may I interest you in a new cravat? Pure silk by way of the-- Before Parker can finish, the door opens. It's Jasper's Master, FITZGERALD. He's stern, clearly displeased.
fitzgerald		Jasper!
solomon		No intrusion. Fitzgerald looks to Solomon. It is a cold glare as though he wasn't speaking to, and has no interest in a response from a black man. Looking back to Parker:
fitzgerald		Good day, sir.
solomon		"Thus has passed away from earth our late President." Solomon starts from the top of the article.
margaret		Will you read it again?
anne		Not just now, darling. Anne enters the dining room and places a large chicken at the center of the table. As she takes a seat, all heads are bowed.
margaret		For food that stays our hunger, For rest that brings us ease, For homes where memories linger, We give our thanks for these.
all		Amen.
solomon		Margaret, that was wonderful.
margaret		Thank you, Papa.
solomon		Alonzo, do you have something to say?
alonzo		Yes, I helped Momma make this.
anne		Yes, and you were such a good help. Especially making the gravy.
margaret		Papa, I would very much like to learn how to play the violin. Could you teach me?
alonzo		Me too!
margaret		Yes, but I asked Papa first.
solomon		Both of you, calm down. We will have our first lesson after this wonderful dinner. And on that note, let's start eating.
solomon		Travel safely.
anne		Stay safely. Anne and the children loaded up, the Driver chides the horse and the carriage heads off. Solomon waves a hearty good bye to his wife and children.
brown		Sir.
hamilton		He was indeed.
solomon		Mr. Moon is being overly gracious.
brown		Taking into consideration his graciousness and your modesty, may we trouble you for a moment of your time to converse, sir?
solomon		A circus?
hamilton		That is our usual employee. The company currently in the city of Washington.
brown		Circus too constricting a word to describe the talented and merry band with which we travel. It is a spectacle unlike most have ever witnessed. Creatures from the darkest Africa as yet unseen by civilized man. Acrobats from the Orient able to contort themselves in the most confounding manners.
hamilton		And I myself in aide of Mr. Brown; an internationally renowned practitioner in the art of prestidigitation.
brown		We are on our way thither to rejoin the company having left for a short time to make a small profit from our own exhibitions.
hamilton		The reason for our inquiry with Mr. Moon...
brown		Yes. We had just a devil of a time in procuring music for our
solomon		Thank you sir...
brown		If we could persuade you to accompany us as far as New York... We would give you one dollar for each day's service and three dollars for every night played at our performances. In addition we would provide sufficient pay for the expenses of your return from New York here to Saratoga.
solomon		You understand this is all very sudden.
hamilton		Consider it an opportunity to see
solomon		It's intriguing...
hamilton		If there is any way in which you would give consideration to the offer... Solomon gives the whole deal one last consideration.
solomon		The payment offered is enticement enough, as is my desire to visit the metropolis.
hamilton		We are delighted, sir. So delighted. Though we would add that our travel plans--
brown		We would like to depart with haste.
solomon		As luck would have it, my wife and children are traveling. I will write her of our plans.
brown		Excellent! I would beg you collect yourself, then we may proceed.
hamilton		No letter to post?
solomon		No need. My return will coincide with my family's.
brown		We're off then.
hamilton		Not an additional tip from a one of them. They expect to be entertained for nothing.
brown		And not satisfied a bit despite giving them more than what they paid for.
solomon		It's the national mood. There's too much grief to make room for frivolity.
hamilton		My sincerest apologies, Solomon. You were promised opportunity, and you were given none.
brown		The opportunity is with the circus. A two man show poorly promoted, what were we to expect? But the circus bills itself.
hamilton		True.
brown		I have told you of the circus with which we are connected. Creatures from the darkest of Africa. Acrobats from the Orient who--
solomon		You have described it, yes.
brown		Yes. We need to return immediately to Washington. Solomon...I believe us familiar enough now, but forgive me if I am bold...would you consider making the trip with us? Solomon gives a bit of a laugh at the idea.
hamilton		Entertaining at pubs and inns has it's place, but a man of your skills deserves better.
brown		Hear, hear.
hamilton		And more importantly you would build your own name and following. The circus tends to attract those with the highest of reputations. An introduction here and there could amount to a lifetime of reward. Now would be the time. With your family away, an opportunity presents itself.
brown		Said as fellow artists as well as businessmen. Well worth the effort at least.
solomon		You present a flattering representation. As my family will be traveling back shortly, perhaps I might commit only to one trial engagement.
hamilton		Oh, very good, sir. Very good. I cannot recall being so excited.
brown		There is a practical concern. If you are to continue on with us you should obtain your free papers.
solomon		Not necessary.
brown		Here in New York, no. But we will be entering slave states and as a matter of precaution... It's to all our benefit we should not have to come to account for your well being.
hamilton		Six shillings worth of effort could well save much trouble later.
brown		We'll go to the Customs House in the morning, then travel on. Good business all around.
brown		Forty-three dollars. All to you.
solomon		That...it's far more than my wages amount to.
brown		Consider the remainder an advance from the circus. I cannot tell you...I honestly wish you had seen the expression of our director when I described your abilities. He was fairly overcome with excitement.
hamilton		You should have invited him to sup with us.
brown		I did. I did, but so many preparations before the company is to depart.
brown		Tomorrow we shall prepare for our Washington debut. But tonight, our thoughts are with the great man
hamilton		Cheers.
brown		Another. Our departed President deserves all the salutation we can imbibe. Hamilton and Brown drink again, and Solomon does as well.
hamilton		That's all right Solomon. No shame in it. No shame at all.
hamilton		I'm afraid that Brown and I haven't brought you much luck. But rough waters bring smooth sailing. Eventually they do.
solomon		....So...so sorry...
hamilton		Shhh. We won't hear it. We won't.
brown		Let him sleep.
hamilton		Hmm. A good night's sleep. And tomorrow...tomorrow you will feel as well and refreshed as though the earth were new again. Hamilton lingers a bit too long and a bit too close to Solomon for Brown's taste. With more than a bit of
brown		Hamilton! Nothing more we can do for him.
hamilton		Such is the pity. Displaying an odd sort of disappointment, Hamilton slinks away from the bed. He crosses to, and BLOWS OUT A CANDLE. The room goes dark with a blackness more than night. Brown and Hamilton exit. Solomon lays in the dark and moans. His sounds becoming MORE AND MORE
burch		Well, my boy, how yah feel now? Solomon rises up as best he can. With all the resolve he can put together he states what he considers to be fact:
solomon		I am Solomon Northup. I am a free man; a resident of Saratoga, New York. The residence also of my wife and children who are equally free. I have papers. You have no right whatsoever to detain me--
burch		Yah not any--
solomon		And I promise you - I promise - upon my liberation I will have satisfaction for this wrong.
burch		Resolve this. Produce your papers.
solomon		...I...I insist... Burch regrets hearing this. Not from sympathy, but rather because he's nearly too tired to go back to beating Solomon. Yet, as if returning to work, Burch returns to pummeling Solomon. Burch punctuates the blows
burch		Yah a slave. Yah a Georgia slave! Burch continues to strike, and strike... This time until the paddle SNAPS IN HALF. Burch then GRABS THE WHIP. Hardly missing a stroke, he whips Solomon relentlessly, the flails cutting into Solomon's back. Again, Burch's arm tires before Solomon "breaks."
solomon		...No... Burch goes back to whipping and whipping, and whipping...
radburn		I seen a good many of the black kind just where yah're. Sick. Make me sick. Often times the situation was resolved, and I think; what was all the beatin' and abuse for? Things end as they should, and the violence was for naught. So why cause trouble when they ain't no cause for it? Be of a cooperative nature, and things don't need be particularly unpleasant.
solomon		Help me! Someone help me! If anyone at all hears him, they do not respond. Solomon continues his plaintive cry for assistance.
radburn		Go on. Warsh up. The men, soaking in humility as well as water, begin to scrub with A SINGLE BAR OF HARSH SOAP passed among them.
randall		Do you know when my Mama will come?
radburn		Hush him up! Seeing Solomon has no answer for him, Randall begins to cry.
randall		Mama ..! Mama! Is she going to come? Doing all he can to spare the child from a certain
solomon		Quiet, please. Randall is becoming nearly inconsolable.
randall		Mama!
solomon		Your mother will come, I swear she will, but you must be silent. Please. Be silent! On the seeming strength of Solomon's promise, Randall goes silent. Solomon looks to Radburn, who just throws water on the soapy men.
radburn		That old thing of yours is just rags and tatters. Need something proper to wear. Solomon doesn't move for the clothing.
solomon		...Thank you...
radburn		Yah keep bein' proper, yah'll see how things work out. Radburn starts to take the old shirt.
solomon		No! It was from my wife.
radburn		Rags and tatters. Rags and tatters. Taking the shirt, the "rags and tatters" as he calls them, Radburn exits, locking the door behind him. Solomon sits with the plate of food before him. He pushes the plate away rather than eat.
solomon		This can't stand. It is a crime. I believe now someone lay in wait for me. My drink was altered... We are free men. They have...they have no right to hold us. Solomon waits for a response from the others. They give none.
clemens		Who in your estimation is that sympathetic ear?
solomon		The two men I journeyed with. I'm certain they're making inquires at this very moment.
clemens		I would be just as certain they are counting the money paid for delivering you to this place.
solomon		They were not kidnappers. They were artists. Fellow performers.
clemens		You know that? You know for certain who they were?
john		No.
clemens		I don't say that to give you empty agitation, John...
john		For y'all. For y'all they ain't nothin' but that! But John was'n kidnapped. John bein' hold as debt, tha's all. Massa pay his debt, and John be redeemed--
clemens		Boy, our masters will not come for us. John is nearly beside himself with panic.
john		Now John's...John's sorry for y'all, but tha's how it be. Where y'all goin', yah goin' witout John. Massa take care of me. Massa take care.
randall		Mama! All three men turn and look. At the moment Randall doesn't call out emptily. At the door to the yard is Burch along with two women. One in her late twenties; ELIZA. She is "arrayed in silk, with rings upon her fingers, and golden ornaments suspended from her ears." Though a slave, Eliza was a mistress and has - to this point - lived well. This is reflected in her airs and her speech. The other is a little girl, light in skin color, of about seven or eight. This is EMILY, Randall's half sister. As she enters the yard Eliza squeals with high delight, then breaks into tears of both sorrow and joy. Clearly this is mother and child being reunited.
eliza		My darling. My sweet, sweet baby.
eliza		When I say I had my master's favor, you understand. Above even his own wife, I had it. Do you know that he built a house for me? Built it on the sole condition that I reside there with him. The added promise in time I would be emancipated. And for nine years he blessed me with every comfort and luxury in life. Displaying the finery she still wears:
burch		Come on. Get yer blankets. Get up. Sensing that things will not end well:
eliza		No, please don't...
burch		I don't want to hear yer talk. Get in the yard.
eliza		Please...
radburn		Ain't no need for all that. Putting hand to Randall's head.
john		John's massa gunna pay his debt. John's massa gunna come for him.
burch		Not a word out of none a yah. Not a word. Burch and Radburn begin driving the shackled slaves from the yard.
mulatto woman		Cheer up and don't be so cast down.
ray		Clemens...! Clemens Ray! We are in the port of New Orleans, one of the busiest in the young nation. On the dock itself there is a bustle of activity as goods are loaded and unloaded from a various ships. It's a bit of controlled chaos as a VARIETY OF LANGUAGES are spoken and shouted while slaves are shuttled from the Orleans to a holding pen. Solomon, and all the slaves are overwhelmed by all that is happening around them. Two men - among many - are awaiting the arrival of the Orleans. They are JONUS RAY - Clemens Ray's master - and DAVIS who is the solicitor of Mr. Ray. They both look like they mean business. The moment the gangplank is laid, Ray yells for Clemens. Clemens, seeing his master, is nearly crazy with delight. He is, uncharacteristically beside himself. Ironically, his master now represents "freedom."
clemens		...My master... Master Ray, sir! Master Ray! Clemens pulls on his chain. As he does so, Several other slaves collapse in his effort to reach his master, like dominos.
ray		Who is in charge of this vessel?
captain		I am the Captain.
ray		I am Mr. Jonus Ray. My solicitor has documentation verifying that the Negro named Clemens Ray is my property. As he reads PAPERS handed to him by Davis:
captain		I know nothing of--
ray		You are ordered by court to return that property immediately, or face charges of thievery.
captain		My duty is to transport goods. I am not responsible for their origin.
ray		Remove these contraptions! To his mate:
captain		Free him! Biddee does as ordered. Once free, Clemens hugs and sobs over his master as would a lost and then found child.
ray		It's all well, now, Clemens. You will return home with me.  Consider this notice and warning.
freeman		Oren. John. Lethe. Eliza. Randall. Emily. Platt... Platt! Solomon does not respond. Freeman looks around. He spots Solomon.
captain		Burch. Freeman steps to Solomon. He gives him a looking over.
freeman		Stand up. Solomon does as told.
solomon		My name is not Platt. My name is-- Freeman strikes Solomon hard across the face.
freeman		Your name is Platt, and I will teach you your name so that you don't forget.  Shackle my niggers. Get them to my cart.
freeman		Tallest to smallest, understand? Are you taller than her? Then you'd go before her. Do it. Move.  Keep your heads up. A sense of direction; that's how you look smart. None of those saucer eyes. Rid yourself of that smile. Look like a goddamn grinnin' monkey. Put the least thought in your head. C'mon, now. Think of somethin'. Weary of Cape's playing, Solomon moves to Cape. He asks:
solomon		Can you play a reel?
solomon		If I may...? Cape looks to Freeman:
freeman		He sick of your caterwaulin'. Let him play, boy. Let's see what he can do. Cape reluctantly hands the fiddle over to Solomon. Solomon tunes it a bit, then begins to play. His fingers stiff at first, he takes a moment to warm up. But as he warms up he is, despite the circumstances, masterful.
ford		What is the price for the ones Platt and Eliza?
freeman		A thousand for Platt; he is a nigger of talent. Seven hundred for Eliza. My fairest price.
ford		You will accept a note?
freeman		As always, from you, Mr. Ford. Eliza is beside herself as it seems she is about to be separated from her family. She begs of Ford:
eliza		Please, sir... Please don't divide my family. Don't take me unless you take my children as well.
freeman		Eliza, quiet!
eliza		You will have the most faithful slave in me, sir. The most faithful slave that has ever lived, but I beg that you do not separate us. A BUYER interrupts the skirmish and approaches Freeman and delivers coolly, eyeing Randall-
buyer		Your price for the child?
freeman		You see how fit the boy is. Like ripe fruit. He will grow into a fine beast. Randall is made to run, and jump by FREEMAN - exhibiting his activity and his condition.
buyer		Done. He reaches into his waistcoat and retrieves his wallet, counting out six hundred dollars, placing them into the already extended hand of Freeman. Ford sees the distress and panic in Eliza; it visibly touches him. He now tries to buy EMILY to console her.
ford		How much for the little girl? You have no need for her. One so young will bring you no profit.
freeman		I will not sell the girl. There's heaps 'n piles of money to be made off her. She is a beauty. One of the regular bloods. None of your thick-lipped, bullet headed, cotton picking niggers.
ford		Her child, man. For God's sake, are you not sentimental in the least?
freeman		My sentimentality stretches the length of a coin. Do you want the lot, Mr. Ford, or do you pass on them all?
ford		I will take the ones Platt and Eliza. Eliza grips her children tight.
eliza		I will not go without my children. You will not take them from me.
freeman		Take her out of here. Cape DROPS HIS FIDDLE, begins to pull Eliza away toward the door of the room, but her screaming and pleading do not abate. IT IS CLEARLY UNSETTLING TO THE OTHER BUYERS.
emily		Mama... Mama!
emily		Don't cry, Mama. I will be a good girl. Don't cry. I will keep my head up and I will look smart. I will always look smart.
freeman		Make merry, all of you! Goddamn it, Cape! Keep her quiet or it's your damned hide I will take it out of! Cape pulls a rag, stuffs it in Eliza's mouth. Clamping both hands over her mouth, he hauls Eliza from the room by the head. IT IS AN UGLY, UGLY SCENE.
chapin		Sam, call to the Mistress.
sam		Mistress! Mistress, they arrivn'. MISTRESS FORD EXITS the house - along with her attending slave, RACHEL, who is a cook AS WELL AS SAM'S WIFE - and travels to her husband, kisses him, then laughingly
ford		Make me something to eat, dear. The day has taken it from me.
ford		Mr. Chapin--
ford		Separated from her children.
ford		It couldn't be helped.
ford		Mr. Chapin, tomorrow you will take these two up to the mill and start them workin'. For now make them
chapin		Yes, sir.  C'mon, now. C'mon. Don't dawdle.
ford		"But as touching the resurrection of the dead, have ye not read that which was spoken unto you by God, saying, I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. God is not the God of the dead, but of the living. And when the multitude heard this, they were astonished at his doctrine. Then one of them, which was a lawyer, asked him a question, tempting him, and saying, Master, which is the great commandment in the law? Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets." Despite the lightness with which Ford speaks and the hope in his words, ELIZA SITS OFF TO THE SIDE - SELF-SECLUDED
solomon		But he that is greatest among you, let him be as the younger; and he that is chief, as he that doth serve. For whether is greater, he that sitteth at meat, or he that serveth? Is not he that sitteth at meat? But I am among you as he that serveth. A white customer - WINSLOW - irate at the sight and sound of slaves reading Scripture, crosses over. He grabs the Bible.
winslow		From where did you thieve this?
sam		Suh, the book is my property. The White Customer has no interest in Sam's answer. With flailing hands he STARTS BEATING ON SAM. Solomon tries to stop him. That only makes the situation worse, Solomon now the target of the man's ire.
winslow		Take your hands from me! Ford comes running over.
ford		What is the commotion?
winslow		Your niggers are either brazen or rebellious. This one was readin' Scripture, and this one claims it to be his.
ford		It is. A gift from his Mistress.
winslow		You condone this?
ford		I encourage it. As a Christian I can do no less.
winslow		You can do no worse, Ford. A slave that reads is dangerous. Winslow moves off. He yells back at Ford:
ford		Pay him no mind. The word of God applies to all. In that you may take comfort.
solomon		The creek is plenty deep enough to sail, even with a boat full of load. The distance from the WORK AREA to the point on the latter bayou is several miles by water fewer than land. It occurs to me that the expense of the transportation would be materially
tibeats		"Materially diminished?"
solomon		If we use the waterway.
tibeats		It's a scheme. Plenty of engineers have schemed similarly. The passes are too tight.
solomon		I reckon them at more than twelve feet at their most narrow. Wide enough for a tub to traverse. A team of niggers can clear it out.
tibeats		And you know what of transport and terra formin'?
solomon		I labored repairing the Champlain canal, on the section over which William Van Nortwick was superintendent. With my earnings I hired several efficient hands to assist me, and I entered into contracts for the transportation of large rafts of timber from Lake Champlain to Troy.
solomon		My great thanks, Master Ford.
ford		My thanks to you, and it is the least of it. My hope is that it brings us both much joy over the years. Following the statement, Solomon's not sure how to react. He remains grateful, but the thought of "over the years" is just a reminder of the altered state in which he now finds himself.
solomon		Eliza. Eliza, stop! Solomon goes to her, grabs Eliza. She does not stop. As if to force the misery from her, Solomon SHAKES ELIZA
eliza		It's all I have to keeps my loss present.
solomon		You let yourself be overcome by sorrow. You will drown in it.
eliza		Have you stopped crying for your children? You make no sounds, but will you ever let them go in your heart?
solomon		...They are as my flesh...
eliza		Then who is distressed? Do I upset the Mistress and the Master? Do you care less for my loss than their well being?
solomon		Master Ford is a decent man.
eliza		He is a slaver.
solomon		Under the circumstances--
eliza		Under the circumstances he is a slaver! Christian only in his proclamations. Separated me from my precious babies for lack of a few dollars. But you truckle at
solomon		No...
eliza		You luxuriate in his favor.
solomon		I survive. I will not fall into despair. Woeful and crushed; melancholy is the yolk I see most. I will offer up my talents to Master Ford. I will keep myself hearty until freedom is opportune.
eliza		Ford is your opportunity. Do you think he does not know that you are more than you suggest? But he does nothing for you. Nothing. You are no better than prized livestock. Call for him. Call, tell him of your previous circumstances and see what it earns you...Solomon. Eliza uses Solomon's name quite pointedly as if to underscore his true self. Solomon get her meaning. Yet he says nothing. Again, pointedly:
eliza		I accuse you of nothing. I cannot accuse. I too have done so many, many dishonorable things to survive. And for all of them I have ended up here... No better than if I had stood up for myself. Father, Lord and Savior forgive me... Forgive me. Oh, Solomon, let me weep for my children.
ford		And Jesus called a little child unto him, and set him in the midst of them, And said, Verily I say unto you, Except ye be converted, and become as little children, ye shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven. The phrase seems to trigger Eliza's tears. She begins to sob uncontrollably. Mrs. Ford turns to Rachel in a hushed whisper-
ford		But whoso shall offend one of these little ones which believe in me, it were better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck, and that he were drowned in the depth of the sea. Woe unto
tibeats		Raise yer shirt. Solomon does as instructed. Tibeats looks at Solomon's back, at the scars from lashings he bears.
ford		He's a good carpenter and quick- witted.
tibeats		I am familiar with his cleverness.
ford		You won't find a nigger more humble.
tibeats		Ain't found a nigger yet I cain't humble. Tibeats heads off. Solomon, highly curious over the preceding.
solomon		Sir, have I done something wrong?
ford		Not your concern, Platt. I say with much...shame I have compiled debts. I have long preached austerity, but find myself hypocritical in that regard. You'll be in the ownership of Mr. Tibeats. You are his now. Serve him as you'd serve me.
solomon		Sir.
ford		And your faithfulness will not be forgotten.
solomon		Yes, sir.
ford		Pride and want have been my sin. Loss of you is but one of my punishments.
tibeats		Make them boards flush.
solomon		They are, sir.
tibeats		They is no such thing. Solomon runs his hands over the boards.
solomon		As smooth to the touch as a yearling's coat.
tibeats		Callin' me a liar, boy?
solomon		Only a matter of perspective, sir. From where you stand you may see differently. But the hands are not mistaken. I ask only that you employ all your senses before rendering judgement. What's Tibeats to do when faced with fact? All he can do is spew invectives.
tibeats		You are a brute. You are a dog, and no better for followin' instruction.
solomon		I'll do as ordered, sir.
tibeats		Then you'll be up at daybreak. You will procure a keg of nails from Chapin and commence puttin' on clapboards. Tibeats wheels away. Solomon goes back to his work. After a few moments Solomon notices a bit of commotion in the drive of the great house. It involves an inconsolable Eliza who is being herded by Sam onto a cart DRIVEN BY A WHITE MAN. Mistress Ford and Rachel watch. Solomon can only watch as the last connection to his days as a free man is driven away to a location unknown.
chapin		If Tibeats prefers a different size, I will endeavor to furnish them, but you may use those until further directed.
solomon		Yes, sir.
tibeats		I thought I told yah ta commence ta puttin' on clapboards this morn'.
solomon		Yes, master. I am about it. I have begun on the other side of the house. Tibeats walks around to look over Solomon's work. He is picayune, as if purposefully looking for fault.
tibeats		Didn't I tell yah last night to get a keg of nails of Chapin?
solomon		And so I did; and Chapin said he would get another size for you, if you wanted them when he came back from the field. Tibeats walks to the keg and kicks it. Moving toward Solomon "with a great passion:"
tibeats		Goddamn yah! I thought yah knowed somethin'! Solomon, perhaps inspired by his moment with Eliza, is in no mood for Tibeats.
solomon		I did as instructed. If there's something wrong, then its wrong with your instructions.
tibeats		Yah black bastard! Yah goddman black bastard! In an inconsolable rage, Tibeats runs off to the piazza to fetch a whip. Solomon looks around. He is alone other than Rachel and Mistress Ford who, shocked by that which she witnesses, runs out to the field to fetch Chapin. Solomon's instinct is to run, but he stands his ground as Tibeats marches back whip in hand.
solomon		I will not. With "concentrated vengeance," Tibeats springs for Solomon, seizing him by the throat with one hand and
tibeats		Yew will not live ta see another day, nigger! This is yer last, I swear it! Solomon ignores the threats, continues to beat Tibeats. Blow after blow falling fast and heavy on Tibeats's wriggling form. The stiff stock of the whip wraps around Tibeats's cringing body until Solomon's arm aches. Tibeats's cries of vengeance turn to yelps for help and then pleas for mercy:
chapin		What is the matter? Tibeats struggles up and tries to present an air of dignity and control while he keeps a demonic eye on
solomon		Master Tibeats wants to whip me for using the nails you gave me.
chapin		What's the matter with the nails? With a mix of shame, anger and embarrassment, Tibeats says, as if being exposed-
tibeats		They're...they're too large.
chapin		I am overseer here. I told Platt to use them, and
tibeats		This ain't done by half. I will have flesh, and I will have all of it. Tibeats moves off toward, and then INTO THE HOUSE. Chapin follows. A long moment, Solomon stands alone. He looks around, not sure what to do; to stay or to flee. Anxiety mounts on his features. A moment more, and Tibeats EXITS the house. He saddles his horse and rides off to beat the devil. Or, worse, to fetch him. Chapin comes running back out of the house. He is visibly excited, and when he speaks he is quite earnest. Though he tries to project reasoned emotions he gives off an air of impending trouble.
chapin		Do not stir. Do not attempt to leave the plantation on any account whatever. But if you run there is no protecting you.
chapin		If you run, Platt, there is no protecting you. Rachel...! Chapin runs off to join Rachel. The two converse at a distance from Solomon, then they head off for the log kitchen. Solomon is now very much alone, and he waits for what is to come. AND WE WAIT WITH HIM. And we wait, and we continue to wait... Moment by moment, the dread of the unexpected mounts. Solomon's eyes begin to well. He has beaten a white man, and he knows that death awaits him.
tibeats		Tha's the one. Tha's him. Dismounting, they move with menace that is tinged with perverse pleasure and wordless malevolence. Solomon tries to fight back, but he is strong armed and tied by TIBEATS - his wrists, and then ankles bound in the same manner. In the meantime the other two have slipped a cord within Solomon's elbows, running it across his back and tying it firmly. Solomon is then dragged toward a peach tree. A lynching is in store. The naked horror of it intensely palpable. Solomon looks toward the piazza, but Chapin is now gone. Tears of fear flow down Solomon's cheeks. He is on the verge of panic; a man heading toward his own execution, he begins to struggle and fight. A rope goes around Solomon's neck, then is tossed over the branch of the tree. The trio begin to hoist Solomon. He gasps and gags as spittle flies from his mouth and the life is choked from him. With suddenness, Chapin comes from the house brandishing a pistol in each hand - Colt Paterson .36 caliber "Holster" pistols with 9" barrels. Chapin moves with determination toward the lynch mob. He is sharp and matter of fact. With the guns in hand, he really doesn't need to be much more demonstrative.
chapin		Gentlemen... Whoever moves that nigger another foot from where he stands is a dead man. I am overseer of this plantation seven years, and in the absence of William Ford, my duty is to protect his interests. Ford holds a mortgage on Platt of four hundred dollars. If you hang him, he loses his debt. Until that is canceled you have no claim to his life. Directing his attention to Ramsay and Cook:
tibeats		Yah got no cause. Platt is mine, and mine ta do with as I please. Yah touch my property, I will 'ave yah strung up as well. Tibeats mounts up and departs. There is a surreal moment as Chapin's not sure what to do about Solomon. He chooses to do nothing. Solomon is left dangling by the neck from the tree as Chapin calls to Sam in the
chapin		Sam! Get the mule. You must ride to Master Ford. Tell him to come here at once without a single moment's delay. Tell him they are trying to murder Platt. Hurry, boy. Bring him back if you must kill the mule to do so!
sam		Yes, suh! Sam mounts up and rides off, the mule demonstrating much speed.
ford		Platt... My poor Platt. Ford produces a blade and cuts Solomon loose. Solomon attempts to carry himself, but he cannot. He falls to the ground and passes out.
ford		I believe Tibeats is skulkin' about the premises somewhere. He wants you dead, and he will attempt to have you so. It's no longer safe for you here. And I don't believe you will remain passive if Tibeats attacks. I have transferred my debt to Edwin Epps. He will take charge of you.
solomon		 Master Ford, you must know; I am not a slave.
ford		I cannot hear that.
solomon		Before I came to you I was a freeman.
ford		I am trying to save your life! And...I have a debt to be mindful of. That, now, is to Edwin Epps. He is a hard man. Prides himself on being a "nigger breaker." But truthfully I could find no others who would have you. You've made a reputation of yourself. Whatever your circumstances, you are an exceptional nigger, Platt. I fear no good will come of it.
epps		"And that servant which knew his Lord's will...WHICH KNEW HIS LORD'S WILL and prepared not himself...PREPARED NOT HIMSELF, neither did according to his will, shall be beaten with many stripes..." D'ye hear that? "Stripes." That nigger that don't take care, that don't obey his lord - that's his master - d'ye see? - that 'ere nigger shall be beaten with many stripes. Now, "many" signifies a great many. Forty, a hundred, a hundred and fifty lashes... That's Scripter!
edwards		Pick that cotton. Move along now.
treach		C'mon. Drive dem niggers. Edward moves among the slaves, applying the whip to them without regard.
edward		Pick dat cotton. Move along now, hear?
treach		Two hundred forty pounds for Bob.
epps		What yah got for James?
treach		Two hundred ninety five pounds.
epps		Tha's real good, boy. Tha's real good.
treach		One hundred eighty two pounds for Platt. Epps does not look happy. Treach says again:
epps		How much can even an average nigger pick a day?
treach		Two hundred pounds.
epps		This nigger ain't even average. Epps pulls Solomon aside.
treach		Five hundred twelve pounds for Patsey.
epps		Five hundred twelve. Yah men folk got no shame lettin' Patsey out pick yah? The day ain't yet come she swung lower than five hundred pounds. Queen of the fields, she is.
treach		Two hundred six pou--
epps		I ain't done, Treach. Ain't I owed a minute to luxuriate on the work Patsey done?
treach		...Sir...
epps		Damned Queen. Born and bred to the field. A nigger among niggers, and God give 'er to me. A lesson in the rewards of righteous livin'. All be observant ta that. All!
treach		One hundred thirty eight pounds for Phebe.
epps		Hit one forty five yesterday. Pull her out.
treach		Two hundred six pounds for Wiley.
epps		How much he pick yesterday?
treach		Two hundred twenty nine pounds. Wiley is pulled from the line, huddled with Solomon.
uncle abram		Hold my words: General Jackson will forever be immortalized. His bravery will be handed down to the last posterity. If ever there be a stain upon "raw militia," he done wiped away on the eight of January. I say da result a that day's battle is of 'mo importance to our grand nation than any occurrence 'fo or since. Great man. Great man in deed. We all need pray to Heavenly Father da General reign over us always.
epps		Get up! Get up, we dance tonight! We will not waste the evenin' with yer laziness. Get up.
epps		Where's yah merriment? Move yer feet. As the slaves twirl about Epps keeps an attentive eye on Patsey. It should be quite clear that his primary motivation for holding dances is so that he may view Patsey twirl about the floor. This fact is not lost on Mistress Epps. A few moments of Epps's lust on display is all that the Mistress can bear. Jealousy mounting, she snatches up a CARAFE. With all her might she throws it at Patsey. It hits Patsey square in the face. TOO THICK TO SHATTER, IT LEAVES HER BLOODY AND WRITHING ON THE FLOOR. The dancing, the music stop. The slaves, however, react as though it is not the first time they've seen as much from the Mistress. Mistress Epps, screaming like a hellion:
mistress epps		Sell her!
epps		C'mon, now. Wha's this?
mistress epps		You will sell the negress!
epps		You're talkin' foolish. Sell little Pats? She pick with more vigor than any other nigger! Choose another ta go.
mistress epps		No other. Sell her!
epps		I will not!
mistress epps		You will remove that black bitch from this property, 'er I'll take myself back to Cheneyville.
epps		Back to that hog's trough where I found you? Oh, the idleness of that yarn washes over me. Do not set yourself up against Patsey, my dear. That's a wager on which you will not profit. Calm yerself. And settle for my affection, 'cause my affection you got. Or, go. 'Cause I will rid myself of yah well before I do away with her! Mistress Epps stands irate, lost in fury and unable to even think of what to do. Eventually, optionless, she storms away. For a few beats there is only the sound of Patsey sobbing.
mistress epps		Platt...
solomon		Yes, Mistress.
mistress epps		Can you find your way to Bartholomew's?
solomon		I can, ma'am. Handing Solomon a sheet of paper.
mistress epps		This is a list of goods and sundries. You will take it to be filled and return immediately. Tell Bartholomew to add it to our debt.
solomon		I will, Mistress. Solomon looks at the list. In a careless moment, Solomon reads quietly from it. He catches himself, but not before the Mistress notes his action. With high
mistress epps		Where yah from, Platt?
solomon		I have told you.
mistress epps		Tell me again.
solomon		Washington.
mistress epps		Who were yah Master?
solomon		Master name of Freeman.
mistress epps		Was he a learned man?
solomon		I suppose so.
mistress epps		He learn yah ta read?
solomon		A word here or there, but I have no understanding of the written text.
mistress epps		Don't trouble yer self with it. Same as the rest, Master bought yah to work. Tha's all. And any more'll earn yah a hun'red lashes. Having delivered her cool advice, Mistress heads back into the house.
mistress epps		Any trouble?
solomon		No, ma'am. No trouble.
master shaw		Platt Epps, good Sunday morning.
solomon		Good morning, Master Shaw. I've been sent by Master to retrieve Patsey. May I approach?
master shaw		You may. Solomon makes his way over to the piazza.
solomon		Excuse me, Mistress Shaw.
mistress shaw		Nigger Platt.
solomon		My apologies. Patsey, Master wishes you to return.
patsey		Sabbath day. I's free ta roam.
solomon		Understood. But the Master sent me running to fetch you, and said no time should be wasted.
mistress shaw		Drink tea?
solomon		Thank you, Mistress, but I don't dare.
mistress shaw		Would you knowed Massa Epps's consternation ta be any lessened wit your timely return? Sit. Sit and drink the tea that offered.
solomon		...I'd rather not say...
mistress shaw		L'il gossip on the Sabbath be fine. All things in moderation. Solomon is not sure what to say. He struggles to be as diplomatic as possible.
solomon		As you are aware, Master Epps can be a man of a hard countenance. There are times when it is impossible to account for his logic. You know he has ill feelings toward your husband.
mistress shaw		He do.
solomon		Master Epps has somehow come to believe, as incorrectly as it may be, that Master Shaw is... That he is something of a lothario and an unprincipled man. A misguided belief born out of their mutual competition as planters, no doubt.
mistress shaw		No doubt...if not born outta truth itself. The Mistress waves to Shaw. Shaw, unsuspecting of the conversation, waves back.
solomon		I'm certain Patsey's well being is Master Epps's only concern.
mistress shaw		Nothin' Epps desire come outta concern.
solomon		I meant no disrespect.
mistress shaw		He ain't heard you.
solomon		I meant no disrespect to you, Mistress.
mistress shaw		Ha! You worry for me? Got no cause to worry for my sensibilities. I ain't felt the end of a lash in 'mo years than I cain recall. Ain't worked a field, neither. Where one time I served, now I got others servin' me. The cost to my current existence be Massa Shaw broadcasting his affections, 'n me enjoyin' his pantomime of fidelity. If that what keep me from the cotton pickin' niggers, that what it be. A small and reasonable price to be paid 'fo sure. Looking toward Patsey, speaking with great empathy:
epps		Pats...! Patsey!
solomon		Do not look in his direction. Continue on. Epps does not care to be ignored. He lifts himself and moves toward the pair in a rage.
epps		Patsey...! Solomon moves between Epps and Patsey, cutting Epps off as Patsey continues on. Playing up his "ignorance" of
solomon		Found her, Master, and brought her back just as instructed.
epps		What'd you jus now tell her? What'd you say to Pats?
solomon		No words were spoken. None of consequence.
epps		Lie! Damned liar! Saw you talkin' with 'er. Tell me!
solomon		I cannot speak of what did not occur. Epps grabs Solomon.
epps		I'll cut your black throat. Solomon pulls away from Epps, RIPPING HIS SHIRT IN THE PROCESS. Epps gives chase. Solomon begins to run around the large pig sty, easily keeping his distance. Epps, however is undeterred. He moves after Solomon as speedily as he can, which isn't very speedily at all. And quickly he tires. Epps is forced to bend over and suck air. Solomon maintains his distance, barely breathing hard. His breath returned to him, Epps starts up the chase again. Solomon runs on out of reach. Shortly, Epps again stops, gets his breath... And now in what should be quite comical, Epps again runs after Solomon. Again, Epps's vigor leaves him before he can even get close to the slave. Dropping down to the dirt, in a show of regret and piety:
mistress epps		What? Wha's the fuss?
solomon		A misunderstanding is all. It began when I was sent to retrieve Patsey from where she'd taken sabbatical at Master Shaw's. Upon returning, Master Epps believed Patsey and me to be in conversation when we were not. I tried to explain, but it lead to all this.
mistress epps		What is it? Ya cain't remain the Sabbath without her under your eye? Ya are a no-account bastard.
epps		Hold a moment...
mistress epps		A filthy, godless heathen. My bed is too holy for yah ta share.
epps		Wha's...wha's he been tellin' yah?
mistress epps		Of yer misbegotten ways.
epps		And he would know what of anythin'? I ain't even spoken with him today. Platt, yah lyin' nigger, have I? Have I? Discretion being the better part and all, Solomon remains silent.
treach		Get him water. Edward runs to fetch a gourd. He carries it to Henry,
edward		Go'won. Git up. Unsteadily, Henry lifts himself and goes back to picking cotton. He joins in again with the spiritual, as if the song is all that can keep him going.
uncle abram		We dance tonight, massa? Epps remains quietly focused on Patsey. And it's clear from her apprehensive expression just what it is he's come looking for. This time there is no escaping it. As if to acknowledge the badness to come, Phebe lightly cries.
mistress epps		A moment from the dancing. Come sample what I baked for y'all. The slaves, thankful for the rest as much as the food, file toward the tray reciting a chorus of "Thank you, Mistress." As Patsey moves toward the pastries:
epps		Seen nothin' but her turn away.
mistress epps		Are you blind or ignorant? It was hot, hateful scorn. It filled that black face. Yah tell me yah did'n see it, then yah choose not to look, or yah sayin' I lie.
epps		Whatever it was, it passed.
mistress epps		Is that how yah are with the niggers? Let every ill thought fester inside 'em. Look at 'em.
patsey		Platt... Platt, you awake?
solomon		I am.
patsey		I have a request; an act of kindness.
solomon		Return it!
patsey		It yours, Platt.
solomon		For what cause?
patsey		All I ask: end my life. Take my body to the margin of the swamp-- Solomon looks at Patsey as though she were insane.
solomon		No.
patsey		Take me by the throat. Hold me low in the water until I's still 'n without life. Bury me in a lonely place of dyin'.
solomon		No! I will do no such thing. The...the gory detail with which
patsey		I thought on it long and hard.
solomon		It is melancholia, nothing more. How does such despair even come to you?
patsey		How can you not know? I got no comfort in this life. If I cain't buy mercy from yah, I'll beg it.
solomon		There are others. Beg them.
patsey		I'm begging you!
solomon		Why? Why would you consign me to damnation with such an un-Godly request?
patsey		There is God here! God is merciful, and He forgive merciful acts. Won't be no hell for you. Do it. Do what I ain't got the strength ta do myself. Solomon says nothing. Clearly he's not about to do the deed. With nothing else to do, knowing she is damned with every breath she draws, Patsey crawls back to her spot on the floor and lays herself down.
epps		It is a plague.
epps		A plague! It's damn Biblical. Two season God done sent a plague to smite me. I am near ruination. Why, Treach? What I done that God hate me so? Do I not preach His word?
epps		I don't care nothin' fer the damn Bayou. I'm sufferin'. Epps looks among his slaves at work, his enmity growing.
epps' slave		I hear cutting cane is twice as hard as picking cotton.
bob		But at least we'll be away from Master Epps.
uncle abram		Boy, you two have no sense. Epps returns to his slaves and gives a parting salutation.
epps		Yer Judge Turner's for the season. More if need be, until my crop return. Yah'll bring no disrespect to me, and yah'll bring no biblical plagues to him. Be decent, ere mark my words, I will deliver an ungodly whippin'.
overseer		Draw the cane from the rick, cut the top and flags from the stalk, understand? Leave only that part which is sound and healthy. Cast off the rest...
zachary		Off the porch. Get off. Like a dog shooed away, Solomon steps down. Eventually Judge Turner exits the house and crosses to Solomon.
solomon		...Sir...
judge turner		Platt is it? Have you cultivated cane previously?
solomon		No, sir, I have not.
judge turner		You take to it quite naturally. Are you educated?
solomon		Niggers are hired to work, not to read and write. Turner gives that a bit of consideration as he gives Solomon a wary looking over.
judge turner		You play the fiddle?
solomon		I do.
judge turner		Willard Yarney, a planter up the bayou, celebrates his anniversary in a three week's time. I will hold out your name to him. What you earn is yours to keep.
solomon		Sir.
judge turner		Mind yourself, Platt.
solomon		C'mere. C'mon, boy.
uncle abram		Runaways I would expect. The Bayou full with 'em. They nothin' 'mo dangerous than a nigger in flight.
solomon		They acted out of desperation.
uncle abram		Act outta lunacy. Heads fulla stories 'bout life up north. Yah ever been north, Platt?
solomon		...No...
uncle abram		And never should yah be. I hope that yah never bear witness the sorry condition of the northern black. Got neither no purpose, nor direction. They jus...they jus fall about the streets in search of sustenance of both body and spirit.
solomon		You know this to be so?
uncle abram		Two of my massas tolt me.
celeste		I am hungry. Give me food.
solomon		Who are you?
celeste		I'm hungry. Solomon gives Celeste some of his food. Celeste, famished, devours it.
solomon		What is your name?
celeste		My name is Celeste.
solomon		What are your circumstances?
celeste		I belong ta Massa Carey, and 'ave been two days among da palmettoes. Celeste is sick and cain't work, and would rather die in the swamp
solomon		Yes.
celeste		Why?
solomon		There are some whose tracks the hounds will refuse to follow.
celeste		Give me more food. I'm starvin'.
solomon		This is all my allowance for the
celeste		Give it to me. Almost as if compelled, Solomon does as ordered. As she eats, Celeste aggrandizes herself:
celeste		I am hungry. Solomon gives Celeste the handkerchief he's filled. She opens it, and begins to devour the food. As she eats:
solomon		Platt.
celeste		Was you free?
solomon		I was. I am. Solomon exposes his wrist, displays his tattoo as he
celeste		Free heart means nothin if'n yo body gunna die a slave.
solomon		I will not.
celeste		How? Celeste knows you ain't gunna run. Celeste knows it ain't your nature.
solomon		I have a plan. I have a letter.
celeste		A letter? How'll yah mail da letter? Who yah trust to post it? A nigger that can read and write is a nigger that'll hang. There is a pause. Solomon can't answer this question. It is the glaring hole in his plan. Having finished eating:
solomon		I risk discovery to take more.
celeste		You will bring Celeste 'mo food. And with that Celeste again moves back into the darkness.
solomon		I have my letter.
celeste		Yah has your freedom then?
solomon		All that remains is to contrive measures by which the letter can safely be deposited in the post office. When Celeste speaks she is quite melancholy.
celeste		I have resolved to return to my Massa. Solomon gives an unnerved look. This is not good news.
solomon		Is it more food you need?
celeste		I live in fear.
solomon		None will come after you in the swamps.
celeste		It ain't the patrollers I scared of... At all seasons the howling of wild animals can be heard at night along the border of the swamps. At first their calls were welcomin'. Dey too was free, 'n I thought dey greeted me like a sistah. Lately, dey cries have turned horrifyin'. They mean to kill Celeste.
solomon		The solitude plays tricks. It's your impression, nothing more. If you go back to your master you could face the same.
celeste		My freedom been nothin' but a daydream. So was Celeste's thoughts of slaves conjoinin' in the bayou.
solomon		Better the loneliness. You have been free most of the summer. Return now and your master will make example of you.
celeste		It is lonely dwellin' waiting for others who won't never come.
solomon		Go north. Make your way by night...
celeste		It'll only be worse if'n Celeste don't go back of her own will.
solomon		You won't be caught. The dogs won't track you. You are...you are unique. Celeste...
celeste		You got alternatives, Solomon.
solomon		To return is to die!
celeste		Celeste got no one to write a letter to. As if to punctuate her resolve, without a word more Celeste departs toward the swamp. Solomon starts on into the swamp after her.
solomon		Celeste... Celeste! Solomon continues after Celeste, wading deeper into the dark night and murky waters.
epps		A joyous day. A joyous day. Dark times is behind us. Clean livin' 'n prayer done lifted the plague. Indicating to the cotton:
epps		Wiley...?
treach		Two hundred sixty pounds.
epps		Bob?
treach		Three hundred forty pounds for Bob.
epps		Patsey?
treach		Five hundred twenty pounds.
epps		Tha's a girl. Don't never let me down. Platt?
treach		One hundred sixty pounds. Before Treach is even done announcing the weight, Epps has pulled Solomon aside to where Uncle Abram already awaits his fate.
epps		Armsby?
treach		Sixty four pounds. Epps speaks to Armsby sternly, but nothing of the manner in which he would address the slaves.
epps		A good days labor would average two hundred pounds.
armsby		Yes, sir.
epps		I'm sure in time y'll develope as a picker, but it takes effort, boy. Put some damn effort into it.
armsby		Yes, sir. To Treach, regarding Solomon and Abram:
epps		Take 'em out. Get to whippin'. No force is needed. The slaves understand the situation. They follow Treach out of the Gin house.
armsby		It's a tragedy. How does such come to pass? Working a field and picking cotton like a lowly hand. I'm of a damn sight better station. And my desires never lacked for a grandiose component, though I will admit they have at times been short on ingenuity. But only at times. I've worked as an overseer, you know.
solomon		I did not, sir.
armsby		Not "sir." Just Armsby. Not owed more than any other in the field. I worked plantations from Virginia, down into Alabama. I could manage easy a hundred slaves and have done so. But to toil in the field? Never thought that would come to pass. Never. But times are desperate. Where once I had said "no" to Epps and his merger offerings, I returned cap
solomon		How did you arrive at such a place, if I may ask?
armsby		Ask. It's just conversation. From a pocket Armsby produces a flask.
solomon		Where is your place of birth?
armsby		Maryland. Have you traveled there?
solomon		...I cannot say that I have.
armsby		Fine country. More seasonal than the bayou. A deal less humid.
solomon		Why did you leave it?
armsby		To make my fortune, of course. I gave in to tales of wealth and prosperity that were the lore of the southern states: all that's needed being a patch of land and a few good growing seasons. Cotton,
treach		Get him water. Edward runs to fetch water which he carries to Abram and
bob		I just want to say something about Uncle Abram. He was a good man and he always looked out for us since we were little. God Bless him. God love him. And God keep him. That done, they begin to cover it with dirt. It is all the more of a funeral that Abram will receive.
solomon		The proceeds of my fiddling performances. A few picayunes, but all I have in the world. I promise them to you if you will do me the favor I require. But I beg you not to expose me if you cannot grant the request.
armsby		What do you ask?
solomon		First, your word, sir.
armsby		On my honor.
solomon		It is a simple enough request. I ask only that you deposit a letter in the Marksville post office. And that you keep the action an inviolable secret forever. The details of the letter are of no consequence. Even at that, there would be an imposition of much pain and suffering were it known I was the author. A patron is what I require, sir.
armsby		Where's the letter now?
solomon		...It is not yet written. I will have it in a day. Two at most, my skill with composition as poor as it is. Armsby considers the request.
armsby		I will do it. And will accept whatever payment is offered. Solomon hesitates. In the moment, he's not so sure he can wholly give himself over to trust.
solomon		In two days. ...Thank you. Solomon exits.
epps		Get up. Solomon does. Epps heads back out into the dark. He says nothing, but his directive is clear: Follow me.
epps		Well, boy. I understand I've got a larned nigger that writes
solomon		All I have to say, master, is all that need be said. There is no truth in it.
epps		You say.
solomon		How could I write a letter without ink or paper? There is nobody I want to write to 'cause I hain't got no friends living as I know of. That Armsby is a lying drunken fellow. You know this, just as you know that I am constant in truth. Now, master, I can see what that Armsby is after, plain enough. Didn't he want you to hire him for an overseer? A beat.
epps		I'm damned. I'll be god... Were he not free and white, Platt. Were he not free and white. Epps heads off. Solomon is left to exhale a deep breath.
epps		Take it. You look unsettled.
bass		I'm well.
epps		No shame in taking respite from the heat; drink, shade. It's ungodly for travelers. Hearty, or otherwise.
bass		Your humor is inadvertent. Sensing perhaps Bass's laughter might be at his expense, Epps presses.
epps		Then share what's funny. Or what ills you.
bass		I'm here to complete the work at hand. As requested, and as paid.
epps		Something rubs you wrongly. Before I take further offense, I offer you the opportunity to speak on it.
bass		You ask plainly, I will tell you plainly. What I find amusing: You worry about my well being in the heat but, quite frankly, the condition of your laborers--
epps		"The condition of my..." What in the hell are you--
bass		It is horrid. It's all wrong. All wrong, sir.
epps		They ain't hired help. They're my slaves.
bass		You say that with pride.
epps		I say it as fact.
bass		If the conversation concerns what is factual and what is not; there's no justice nor righteousness in slavery. I wouldn't own a slave if I was rich as Croesus, which I am not, as is perfectly well understood. More particularly among my creditors. There's another humbug: the credit system. Humbug, sir. No credit, no debt. Credit leads a man into temptation. Cash down is the only thing that will deliver him from
epps		What right? I bought 'em. I paid for 'em.
bass		Of course you did. The law says you have the right to hold a nigger, but begging the law's pardon...it lies. Is everything right because the law allows it? Suppose they'd pass a law taking away your liberty and making you a slave?
epps		Ha!
bass		Suppose.
epps		That ain't a supposable case.
bass		Because the law states that your liberties are undeniable? Because society deems it so? Laws change. Social systems crumble. Universal truths are constant. It is a fact, it is a plain fact that what is true and right is true and right for all. White and black alike.
epps		Whoa, whoa, whoa. Yah compare me to a nigger, Bass? Yah might as well ask what the difference is between a white man and a baboon. Now, I seen one of them critters in Orleans that knowed just as much as any nigger I got. Yah'd call them fellers citizens, I s'pose?
bass		Look here; you can't laugh me down in that way. These niggers are human beings. If they are allowed to scale no higher than brute animals, you and men like you will have to answer for it. There's an
epps		Ahhh!
bass		A fearful ill, resting on this
epps		You betray yourself a foreigner!
bass		That will not go unpunished forever. There will be a reckoning yet.
epps		You like to hear yourself talk, Bass, better than any man I know of. Yah'd argue that black was white, or white black if anybody would contradict you. A fine supposition if yah lived among Yankees in New England. But yah don't.
epps		Patsey... Patsey! A drunk Epps asks of the slaves:
phebe		We know nothin' of her, Massa.
epps		The hell you don't! You know where she is! She run off, ain't she? She's escaped, and you miserable black dogs stand like
epps		Run off. Run off, did you?
epps		You miserable wench! Where you been?
patsey		I been nowhere.
epps		Lies to your misdeeds!
patsey		The Sabbath day, Massa. I took me a walk to commune wit da Lord.
epps		Bring the Lord into yer deceptions? Yah Godless... Shaw's. Comin' from Shaw's plantation weren't yah?
patsey		...No...
epps		Yah took yerself ta pleasure Shaw. Yah gave baser passion to that unblushin' libertine! Solomon tries to intervene:
epps		Now yah speak? Now that yah want to add to 'er lies yah find yer tongue. Epps goes to strike Solomon, but Patsey pulls his arm back.
patsey		Do not strike him. I went to Massa Shaw's plantation!
epps		Yah admit it.
patsey		Freely. And you know why. Patsey takes soap from the pocket of her dress.
epps		You lie...
patsey		The Lord knows that's all.
epps		You lie!
patsey		And you blind wit yer own covetousness. I don't lie, Massa. If you kill me, I'll stick ta that.
epps		I'll learn you to go to Shaw's. Treach, go get some line.
mistress epps		Do it! Strike the life from her. Epps again hoists the whip. It trembles in his hand ahead of the act... But he does not have it in him to deliver such a beating. Turning to Solomon, thrusting the whip at him:
epps		Beat her. Solomon doesn't move. Epps shoves the whip into his hand.
patsey		I'd rather it you, Platt.
epps		Strike her, or yah'll get the same!
mistress epps		He pantomimes. There ain't barely a welt on her. That's what your niggers make of yah; a fool fer the takin'. Epps's grief is replaced by fury. EPPS GRABS THE PISTOL FROM TREACH'S HOLSTER and draws down on the slaves.
epps		Yah will strike her. Yah will strike her until her flesh is rent and meat and blood flow equal, or I will kill every nigger in my sight! Solomon can't strike a blow, even if it means his life. But from the ground, from Patsey:
patsey		Do it, Platt. Don't stop until I am dead. What else can he do? Solomon begins to whip, to truly whip Patsey. Her back welts, then tears... Patsey screams in agony. Solomon strikes again and again... After a full thirty lashes Solomon looks to Epps, who is not satisfied.
epps		Until I say no more! I ain't said nothing! Solomon strikes another ten to fifteen times. By now, as promised, Patsey's back has been reduced to LITTLE MORE
solomon		Thou devil! Sooner or later, somewhere in the course of eternal justice thou shalt answer for this sin! Though Epps fronts rage, there should be underlying anguish for what he has done to his beloved Pats.
epps		No sin! There is no sin! A man does how he pleases with his property. At the moment, Platt, I am of great pleasure. You be goddamn careful I don't come to wantin' to lightenin' my mood no further. By contrast to this horror, the field of cotton smiles in the warm sunlight. The birds chirp merrily amidst the foliage of the tress. Peace and happiness seems to reign everywhere. Everywhere else. Epps leaves Patsey to herself. He says not a word to the Mistress as he passes. The Mistress herself heads back into the house. Solomon unties Patsey, lifts her and takes her to the cabin.
solomon		Master Bass, I want to ask you what part of the country you came from?
bass		No part of this land. I was born in Canada. Now guess where that is.
solomon		Oh, I know where Canada is. I have been there myself.
bass		Have you?
solomon		Montreal and Kingston and Queenston and a great many places. And I have been in York state, too. Buffalo and Rochester and Albany, and can tell you the names of the villages on the Erie canal and the Champlain canal. Bass gives Solomon a long and curious stare.
bass		Well traveled for a slave. How came you here?
solomon		Master Bass, if justice had been done I never would have been here.
bass		How's this? Tell me all about it.
solomon		I am afraid to tell you, though I don't believe you would tell Master Epps if I should.
bass		Every word you speak is a profound secret.
bass		How many years all told?
solomon		Just nearly...just passed eleven.
bass		Your story is...it is amazing, and in no good way.
solomon		Do you believe, sir, in justice as you have said?
bass		I do.
solomon		That slavery is an evil that should befall none?
bass		I believe so.
solomon		If you truly do, I would ask...I would beg that you write my friends in the north, acquainting them with my situation and beseeching them to forward free papers, or take such steps as they might consider proper to secure my release. Bass looks at Solomon, holding his gaze for more than a prolonged beat.
bass		I have always forgone relationships and family. I did once have a sweetheart who I loved deeply. Bass points to a measuring tool, which Solomon immediately hands over.
slow dissolve		To a now virtually complete, half-painted white gazebo. Slaves continue to work on it. As they do so, Bass peels away from the structure to have an overview. He beckons Solomon toward him, out of earshot from the slaves who are continuing to work on the gazebo. As Solomon approaches, Bass shouts-
bass		And bring those markers! Solomon gathers a clutch of markers in his hands and approaches Bass.
solomon		You are certain? Bass takes a marker from Solomon and slides it into the earth.
bass		I have inquired thoroughly. More than is safe for either of us. Bass takes another and pokes it into the ground, improvising a pathway towards the gazebo.
solomon		Five months. On top of these years. No cause remains.
bass		If there is any chance...
solomon		Mr. Bass...
bass		I will continue to write your
solomon		Go home knowing you have tried. The weight of defeat should hang very heavily with both men. Nothing more to do, nothing more to say BASS TAKES
sheriff		Platt...? Where is the boy called Platt?
solomon		...Sir... The Sheriff crosses to him.
sheriff		Your name is Platt, is it?
solomon		Yes, sir. Pointing off to the distance.
sheriff		Do you know that man?
solomon		Mr. Parker...?
sheriff		Say again?
solomon		Mr. Parker? As he does, Epps makes his way over.
sheriff		That man received a letter compiling many accusations. You look me in the eye and on your life answer me truthfully: have you any other name than Platt?
solomon		Solomon Northup is my name.
epps		Sheriff...
sheriff		Have you a family?
epps		What's all this?
sheriff		It's official business.
epps		My nigger, my business.
sheriff		Your business waits.
solomon		I have a wife and two children.
sheriff		What were your children's names?
solomon		Margaret and Alonzo.
sheriff		And your wife's name before her marriage?
solomon		Anne Hampton. I am who I say. Solomon pushes past the sheriff. As Solomon moves toward Parker, his pace quickens with each step until his
epps		Nah... You will unhand 'em. Platt is my nigger!
parker		He is Solomon Northup.
epps		You say...
parker		He belongs to no man.
epps		You say! You come here, unfamiliar to me, and make claims.
sheriff		Not claims. I have no doubts. This is Solomon Northup, a resident of Saratoga Springs, NY.
epps		To hell with that! My nigger, and I'll fight you for 'em!
parker		As is your right. As it will be my pleasure to bankrupt you in the courts. Your decision. By this time, the slaves in the plantation have overcome their fear of penalty, and left their work and gathered in the yard as witnesses. They stand behind the cabin, out of sight of Epps. Mistress Epps also bears witness, standing on the veranda next to her house slave. Her face is of a strange mixed emotion. Epps looks to Solomon. Solomon icily, stoically holds his ground. He makes it quite clear in his countenance that nobody owns him. Sheriff, hand on his gun, is there to back Solomon up. Epps, with no other recourse than to
epps		You think this is the last you'll see of me, boy? It ain't.
patsey		Platt... Disregarding Parker, Solomon crosses over to Patsey. Under the circumstances, neither really knows how to engage. Finally, suddenly, Patsey throws her arms around Solomon and they embrace. Epps, now mounted on his horse, witness the encounter. Kicking the stirrups hard into the sides of the horse, he rides off furiously. Calling from the carriage, mindful of Epps:
parker		Solomon...if we know what's wise, we should depart. A moment longer Solomon and Patsey hold each other. They separate, Solomon heading back to the carriage. He and Parker alight. The Sheriff chides the horses and they
parker		Are you ready? Solomon swallows and nods.
solomon		I apologize for my appearance. I have had a difficult time of things these past many years. Solomon looks among his family; trying to recall them as much as they look to see familiarity within him. To his
margaret		He is my husband.
solomon		Husband?
margaret's husband		It is very good to meet you, sir.
solomon		We have much acquainting to do. Margaret rises, she presents her bundle to her father.
margaret		And this is your grandson. Solomon Northup Staunton.
solomon		...Solomon... The fact his grandson carries his name, is overwhelming. Solomon breaks down. Emotionally, physically... But ANNE IS THERE TO CATCH HIM. As she holds him, Solomon says to Anne with all his heart:
anne		There is nothing to forgive. The pair, joined now by the whole family, hold on to each other for life...and one would think for all the rest of their lives.
****Dialogues from script :12_and_holding.txt****

jacob		You see `em?
rudy		No. But that doesn't mean they're not here.
jacob		What the hell is that?
rudy		Piss.
kenny		You and your deformed brother are dead!
rudy		 Anytime you're ready, dickhead.
kenny		They're fucking dead!
malee		Mom, I need help.
malee		Move it, people.    Outta my way!
leonard		 You're late.
malee		Yeah well, I began menstruating this morning, and I had some difficulty inserting the tampon.  What? It's a natural process. You know, I could conceive, carry and birth a child right now.
leonard		Big deal.    You won't.
malee		But I could. That's what matters.
leonard		The twins said, they'd meet us at the spot.
malee		Wanna race?
leonard		Nah, I'm good.
jacob		Maybe I should have mom look at it.
rudy		If you didn't have that damn mask on, you'd have seen it coming. Our birthday comes once a year, and you ask for a hockey mask. You don't even play.
jacob		Jason from "Friday the 13th" wears one. He's bad ass.
rudy		Exactly. Jason wouldn't run home `cause of a little blood. He'd get back up, decapitate his victim and move on.
jacob		You think Jeff and Kenny will come back?
rudy		I dropped piss on their heads.    I'd say the odds are pretty good.
rudy		Jeff and Kenny were here. I dumped the piss I've been saving on their heads.
leonard		Why were you saving piss?
rudy		Just incase. Pretty smart, huh?
jacob		No, it's stupid cause now they're gonna come back here and kick all our asses.
rudy		Don't be such a pussy.
leonard		Yeah, I could probably take them both myself.
rudy		What are you gonna do, Leonard, eat them?
jacob		All I'm saying is, who cares if they tear it down.
rudy		This is OUR place. We've been coming here since we were seven.
jacob		Nothing lasts forever.
rudy		You're such a butt-munch.
malee		You guys, it's your birthday. Could you try and get along?
debbie		I don't think therapy is helping.
yacco		Why do you say that?   Are you still "cutting"?
debbie		It feels much better than it looks. Really.
malee		Ma, I... Oops.
yacco		Malee, out. Now.
malee		I'm sorry.
yacco		Excuse me for a moment.
yacco		I told you a 100 times to knock.
malee		I said, I was sorry.
yacco		Why aren't you with the boys?
malee		Rudy and Jacob went for pizza with their parents.
yacco		I found this in the backseat of my car this morning. Do you know how much flutes cost?   Go outside, sit on the front steps and practice.
malee		But, mom.
yacco		Now!
malee		Keep it moving. This ain't a show.
jim		Okay, you got your small gifts this morning. Now for the big ones.
ashley		This one is Rudy's.
rudy		Sony play station! Oh my God!      Oh my God! Yes! Too cool!
jim		Since neither of you wanted a party this year, we were able to splurge.
jacob		What is it?
ashley		Only one way to find out.
jim		Go ahead, read it.
jacob		"Plastic Surgery.     Isn't it about time?"  I don't get it.
ashley		Your father and I are going to pay to have your birthmark removed.
jim		Isn't that great.
jacob		You got me surgery for my birthday?
jim		Not just one.     A series of them.
rudy		 Cool.
jacob		It's not "cool".    It totally sucks!
jim		Jacob?
rudy		Don't sweat it. You can borrow my play station anytime you want.
jacob		This isn't about the play station. It's about this thing on my face. Everybody hates it.
rudy		I don't.
jacob		Who cares what you think? You're the reason for all of this. Perfect you with your perfect skin. There to show the world what I'm supposed to look like.  You know, sometimes I just wish I wasn't your twin.
rudy		Screw you! Know what, I take it back, you can't use my play station.
gabe		30 acres.
jim		I already told you, Gabe, I'm not selling that land. Not 30 acres not five.
gabe		I'm willing to pay top dollar.
jim		I'm not gonna let you tear down those woods, so you can stack twenty houses right on top of each other.
gabe		I'm gonna write down a number.
jim		No! My kids... hell, your kids play in those woods all the time. You can't put a price on that.
gabe		I believe I can.
patrick		Good eating, huh son?
leonard		Maybe you shouldn't have seconds, Dad, you know?
patrick		Who are you, Richard Simmons? C'mon, enjoy the day.
kenny		 Me and Jeff are gonna pay that tree house of yours a little visit tonight.
rudy		Why don't you take your smelly ass back to the trailer park?
kenny		Free country, asshole.
rudy		You got nothing better to do than pick on us all the time?
kenny		I did until yesterday.
rudy		I thought you liked "golden showers". Oh no, that was your mother.
kenny		I'll finish this tonight!
rudy		Kenny showed up. He said, Jeff and him are gonna tear the treehouse down tonight. We gotta sneak out and stop them.
jacob		Mom and Dad would kill us.
rudy		We can't let him tear it down.
jacob		It's just a treehouse.
rudy		No, it's not! You know what, you suck. I'm going. Leonard, you in?
jacob		You don't have to go if you don't want to.
rudy		Don't listen to him.     He's a pussy.
leonard		I'll go.
rudy		Finally, someone with balls.
jacob		Rudy.
rudy		Unless you're coming with me, I don't want to hear it.
jacob		What?
rudy		Jeff and Kenny pick on you all the time, and you don't do shit.
jacob		It's my problem.
rudy		No, it's mine too. Cause we're brothers. That's what brothers do. They fight for each other, kill for each other, die for each other.
jacob		I don't feel that way.
rudy		Cause you're a pussy. So stay home, keep your head under the blankets. I'm gonna fight.
leonard		 Some provisions.
rudy		We're only gonna be here a couple of hours.
leonard		When two o'clock rolls around, you'll be begging for one of these.
rudy		Moron, the bat is for Jeff and Kenny. You know, to scare them a little.
leonard		I'm wide awake. I could stay up all night.
leonard		Oh, shit.
rudy		What... What is it?    They here?
leonard		No.
rudy		Where you going?
leonard		They're not gonna show up, I'm goin' home. It's three o'clock-
kenny		Now yours.     And aim for the window.
jeff		You hear that?
rudy		Put it out! Put it out!
jeff		They're in there!   They're in there!
kenny		Wake up!   Wake up, kid!
jim		Ashley?    What is it?
ashley		I forgot to deposit your paycheck last week.
jim		But I already wrote some checks.
ashley		I know. With the cookout and everything, I forgot. I'll deposit it tomorrow. The holiday should buy us an extra day.
jim		Write yourself a note so you don't forget again.
ashley		I just did.
priest		Rest in piece, Rudolph Eugene Carges. May God hold you in the palm of his hand.
gus		Friend or family?
malee		Huh?
gus		The person who died.
malee		Friend.
gus		I'm sorry. You'll like Dr. Chung. This is only my second session, but she's good.
malee		I'm not a patient.     I'm her daughter.
gus		Oh.     I can see the resemblance.
malee		Are you trying to make me sick?
yacco		Mr. Maitland?
malee		It was a funeral, Mom.     How do you think it was?
yacco		I'm sorry I couldn't make it. Let Rudy's parents know I'm available if they need to talk. I won't charge for the sessions.
malee		I know it's okay to cry. I don't need you to tell me, it's okay to cry. If I want to cry, I'll cry.
yacco		Okay.
mother		Ashley, there's more than enough food here.
ashley		No, Rudy loved my deviled eggs. It's right that I make them. Where's the paprika?
ashley		Maybe I threw it out.
ashley		It's okay.
grace		This hospital is a nightmare. The elevator is never there when you need it.
patrick		Where are the girls?
grace		Haley took Sara up to the maternity ward.
leonard		My head hurts.
grace		You're lucky you didn't get killed.
leonard		I told you, I'm sorry.
grace		You try being awakened at four o'clock in the morning by the police saying, they have your son, he's unconscious and on his way to the hospital. I've never been so scared in my life. And poor Rudy.
leonard		My best friend is dead!
grace		Eat this.    It'll make you feel better.
leonard		I'm not hungry. Besides, I can't taste anything anyway.
grace		Hospital food is always bland. This has flavor.
leonard		No, it's because of my condition. I can't taste or smell anything anymore.
grace		What are you saying, condition? What condition?
leonard		 My condition.
doctor		Leonard has a condition.    It's called Anosmia.
grace		Oh my God!     Is it serious?
doctor		No. Anosmia is when a person looses their sense of smell. It's not uncommon in patients who suffer serious head injuries. Unfortunately, it's also affecting his ability to taste. Again, not uncommon.
patrick		Is it permanent?
doctor		Depends on the patient.
grace		What do we do? He can't eat.
doctor		He can eat. He just can't taste what he's eating.
patrick		What she means is, he won't eat.
doctor		Leonard's association with food is no longer about taste. It's about texture. While we may be partial to sweet or salty foods, Leonard will become partial to crunchy or smooth ones. Once he settles on a texture he likes, his appetite will increase.
grace		I can't believe this is happening.
doctor		Considering what Leonard could have suffered, he's lucky. Besides, he is severely overweight. A loss of appetite may be a benefit.
nurse		How'd we do?
leonard		This stuff feels like shit in my mouth.
nurse		It's macaroni and cheese.
leonard		It feels gross. Like there's a film on my tongue.
nurse		So, you can't taste it, right? Maybe you'll like the crunch.
gabe		I'm leaving, Jim.    Again, so sorry.
jim		Gabe, are you still interested in buying the land? Because I accept your offer.
gabe		This is hardly the time to talk business.
jim		Buy the woods, Gabe, please. Tear them down and build. Build houses, condos, a 7-11, I don't care. I just don't want to recognize it ever again.
leonard		You holding up alright, Jacob?
jacob		Jeff and Kenny were the ones that started the fire. It was their fault. Or maybe mine. I should of been there.
malee		You wouldn't have been able to do anything. And it could have been you who died.
jacob		I wish it was. You know the last thing Rudy said to me? He said, I can't be a pussy all my life. He was right, I am. And Rudy might be dead because of it.
malee		Don't say that.  Why don't you talk to your parents about this?
jacob		They can't help me.
malee		Give them time. It'll get better.
jacob		What if it doesn't? My dad hasn't gone back to work yet. What if he loses his job. We could lose our house. I could be homeless.
malee		Then you'll stay with me.
leonard		Or me.
jacob		We're best friends.    We...
malee		Oh my God.
jacob		What?
malee		That guy. I like know him. He's one of my mother's patients.
leonard		So?
malee		I've never seen a patient of hers actually out and about.  Should we go over and say "hi"?
jacob		I just want to get out of here.
leonard		You coming, Malee?
leonard		Are we having company?
grace		No, this is all for you. Your favorites; fried chicken, spaghetti, pizza, french fries, and chocolate cheesecake for dessert. I made everything extra spicy, so you can taste it.
leonard		Ma, it doesn't matter how spicy the food is.
grace		So you're not even gonna try it?
leonard		I'm sure it's delicious.
grace		Forget it.     Don't eat.
leonard		Why not?
grace		 It's unhealthy.
teacher		Tommy Wallace.
tommy		He's not in this class anymore.
teacher		How do you know?
jacob		Cause he's dead.
teacher		I realize being new at this school puts me at a disadvantage, but joking about a fellow classmate's death is anything but funny, Mr....
jacob		I'm his brother. Was.     And I'm not joking. He's dead.
teacher		I'm so sorry. Wow, this is awkward. Would you like the seat left empty?
jacob		Why?
teacher		In memory.
coach		Alright, ladies, welcome to gym. We will be starting things off this year with the United States Standardized Fitness Test.
leonard		That was as far as I could pull myself up.
coach		Ten seconds. You need forty to pass.
coach		23 minutes.
leonard		Not bad.
leonard		Football?
coach		You don't like football?
leonard		I love it. It's just I'll never make the weight requirement. Pop Warner league wouldn't let me play for five years because of it.
coach		There's no weight requirement in high school ball, son.
leonard		Books?
coach		One is on nutrition, the other exercise. You do what they say, and you can play for me once you get to high school.
leonard		Thanks.
coach		Because I've never seen a child so out of shape in my life.
mr farmer		 Did anyone practice over the summer?
ashley		No, they're wrong.    Call them back.
jim		Ashley, I talked to the lawyer.   He wouldn't lie.
jacob		What's going on?
ashley		This is all your fault.
jim		Me?
ashley		If we had gone to the hearings like I said, this wouldn't be happening.
jim		We agreed it would be too painful.
ashley		You agreed.
jacob		Mom, what happened?
ashley		Tell him.    Tell your son.
jim		The boys who killed Rudy cut a deal. They got a year in juvinile hall and five years probation.
ashley		A year. That's what your brother's life is worth. A damn year!
jim		Ashley, calm down!
ashley		How can you be so unaffected by this! How? Our son was murdered!
jim		 It was an accident, and the boys are juveniles.
ashley		So that makes it okay?
gus		Dr. Chung's daughter.
malee		You remembered. We were never introduced. My name is Malee.
gus		Gus.
malee		I was in the mood for a picnic. I thought this would be a nice place to have one.
malee		Would you like to join me?   There's plenty of food.
gus		I don't go to lunch for another ten minutes.
malee		I'll wait. Meet me by the cement mixer when you're ready.
gus		The last time I saw you, you had just come from a funeral. How are you doing?
malee		Okay. Death is like so weird. I mean, it's sad, but I also feel like I've been given this sign. A sign which is telling me, life is short, so you gotta do what makes you happy. You gotta take chances. You gotta get crazy.
gus		What are you doing to "get crazy"?
malee		I play the flute.
gus		 Yeah, that's totally nuts.
malee		No, not that. See, every year my school has this recital. I've always been too scared to play a solo in front of people, but this year I've decided to do it.
gus		Good for you. When is it?
malee		Why do you care?
gus		Cause I'm gonna go.
malee		What? You can't go!    Nobody goes to these things. I don't even think my mom is going.
gus		You gotta have somebody rooting for ya. Besides, I like music, and I owe you for bringing me lunch.
malee		 Okay. Tuesday at 8:30 in the junior high school auditorium.
gus		I'll be there.
malee		 Don't say it if you don't mean it.
gus		I'll be there.      Front row.
leonard		I can't believe how much you suck at this game.
jacob		No.
leonard		You wanna shoot some hoops?
jacob		No.  The sentencing thing totally upset my mom. She was up half the night, crying.
leonard		I can't believe it either. A year ain't shit! Rudy is dead forever.
jacob		I want them dead. I want to kill them. I could handle a year in Juvy hall.
malee		Whoa, what those guys did was an accident. If you were to kill them, it's premedicated. You'd get 20 years to life at least.
jacob		So I'm just supposed to sit here and take it? Be like you guys.
leonard		What is that supposed to mean?
jacob		You seem to have gone on with life pretty easily. Don't you miss him? Don't you care?
malee		It's not that we don't care.     It's just...
jacob		Life goes on.
malee		It does. You have to deal with it. If you don't, it could like eat you alive forever. 90 percent of people's problems is due to their inability to get over the past.
leonard		How do you know?
malee		My mom tells that to all her patients. I've eavesdropped on some of her therapy sessions.
leonard		That's awesome. Can I listen in sometime?
malee		No. Anyway, she says, if a person wants closure, they gotta deal with their problems head on. Go see these guys and let them know how you feel.
jacob		I don't think my parents would be up for that.
malee		Go alone. Juvy hall is only like forty minutes from here. Take the bus.
jacob		Bye, Dad.
jacob		Where's Jeff?
kenny		He's sick.     I think he...
jacob		 I hate you. You know that?     You bastard.
kenny		Rudy knew we were going to be there. He never should have come. You want the truth, all this happened cause of you.
jacob		Me?
kenny		Yeah, you deformed retard! The only reason we started picking on you guys in the first place was because of that thing on your face.
jacob		Every night, I lie in bed and plan your murder.
kenny		I'm shaking.
jacob		First I'm going to take a kitchen knife and chop off your fingers then your nose then your tongue. Then I'm gonna poke out your eyes with the end of a broomstick. Well, not really poke them out, but I'm gonna push them back into your brain. Then I'm gonna take scissors and cut off your ears. When they find you, it's gonna be like putting a jigsaw puzzle back together.
kenny		If you kill me, you come here.
jacob		So? What do I have to look forward to? You've already destroyed my life.
kenny		What happened was an accident.
jacob		There are no accidents. You're gonna pay for what you did. And it's gonna hurt like hell.
grace		What the hell is this?
leonard		I'm reading the list of ingredients in our foods.
grace		Why?
leonard		Research. Do you know the damage these chemicals can do to the human body?
grace		Leonard, put everything back.
leonard		This is serious. You can't keep buying this crap. Don't you care that you're ingesting garbage?
grace		Just put everything back and go to sleep.
yacco		Post traumatic stress is very common in your line of work. Many fire fighters go through this.
gus		Yeah. But why now? I haven't fought fires in ten years.
yacco		Sometimes we experience something so horrific, our memory blocks it out. That way we won't have to relive the pain. It's called repression. Our bodies are not so forgiving, however. Inside, we feel the effects of trauma even when we don't know why.
gus		What does that mean?
yacco		Something stirred your unconscious. If we find out what that was, we can begin the healing process.
gus		A friend was making good money with construction. He got an offer to build that extension off Lindsay Acres. He suggested I come into town and work for a while.
gus		"Light my Fire" is always playing.
yacco		What?
gus		Light my fire. The Doors song.  "Da da something... wallow in the mire... Da, da... we couldn't get much higher. Come on baby light my fire.
yacco		Interesting.
jacob		Dad?
jim		Jacob.
jacob		You okay?
jim		Fantastic.
jacob		Me?
jim		Jacob.   I love you.
jacob		 Yeah?
jim		Will you join me? Join me in this celebration of life. A symbolic gesture of cleaning out the old and bringing in the new.
jacob		Do I have to?
jim		 No, you don't have to.
jacob		Good night, Dad.
malee		Thank you, Mr. Farmer.
malee		Where's Jacob?
leonard		Couldn't make it. He...
malee		Oh my God!     He's coming over.
leonard		Who?
malee		Shut up!     Leave now.
gus		You were awesome.
malee		Really? Be honest. I'd rather you tell me I sucked then lie.
gus		You were great.
malee		Excuse me for a second.
leonard		Ow, ow, ow alright.    I'm going.
malee		So you really enjoyed it?
gus		Yeah. Good song.      What made you pick it?
malee		 Oh, uh... my mother was humming it all last week. Big Doors fan.
gus		Really?   Is she here?
malee		No.
gus		She missed out.
malee		You're so sweet.
gus		Yeah well, I have to go, but thanks again. I had a great time.
grace		That boy is going to bring the entire house down.
patrick		Let him be. He's looking good. I'm proud of him.
grace		 Girls, have you decided what you're going to go as for Halloween?
sara		Either a witch or a princess.
grace		That's nice. Haley?
haley		I'm going to go as a marble.
grace		What do you mean, a marble?
haley		You know, like a bag of marbles, but just one marble.
jeff		I'm really sorry, man.   I...
jacob		You just think about what I said. Get out of my sight. And send Kenny in on your way out.
kenny		What did you say to him?
jacob		I thought you'd both like to know that Halloween was Rudy's favorite holiday.
kenny		Stop it.
jacob		After we'd go trick or treating, we'd sit in our room and swap the candy we hated. Rudy loved Snickers, I Almond Joys.
kenny		Almond Joy sucks.
jacob		What sucks is that I'll never get to sit in my room and swap candy with my brother ever again. Thanks to you.
kenny		Why are you doing this?
jacob		To remind you.
kenny		How could we forget? You been coming here for months to "remind us".
jacob		No one is forcing you to talk to me.
kenny		Anything to get out of my cell.
jacob		Is your cell small?
kenny		Yes.
jacob		So is a coffin.
kenny		You're not the only one who wishes he was still alive. I'd do anything to bring him back, but I can't. It's not easy being in here. Hell, you saw Jeff.
jacob		What happened to him?
kenny		He pissed off the wrong guy off. Jeff is totally fucked right now.
jacob		Good.
kenny		Don't come back here ever again.
jacob		Free country. I'll come if I want.
kenny		Don't expect me to show up.
grace		Be careful now.   Have a good night.
grace		Kids keep coming later every year.
haley		I hate him! I hate him!
grace		Who?    What happened?
haley		Leonard! He threw away all our Halloween candy.
sara		He grabbed our bags and just threw them down a gutter.
patrick		What the hell is going on? Why did you throw away their candy?
leonard		Because their sugar intake is completely unhealthy. Besides, Halloween is supposed to be a celebration of evil. How did candy get wrapped into it?
grace		I am going to ask you this once, and I want a straight answer. Are you in a cult?
patrick		Grace!
grace		This is what happens when kids join cults. The first thing they change is their diets.
leonard		I'm not in a cult. This is all information you can find in books.
grace		The issue here is that you have stolen one of the most exciting nights of the year from your sisters.
patrick		If anybody had done this to you when you were a child, we never would have heard the end of it.
leonard		I wish somebody had done it to me. I wish either one of you had given a shit about my weight.
patrick		I do not care for your language.
leonard		I'm only trying to help you guys.
patrick		What's your point?
leonard		Dad, you and mom are going to die young if you keep eating as poorly as you do.
patrick		What is this obsession you have with weight?
leonard		The coach for Jefferson High is also my gym teacher. He told me that if I got into shape, I could start as center for the Freshman team when I get to high school.
patrick		Center is a great position. Toughest guy on the field. A good center can make or break a team.
leonard		I know.   That's why I'm trying so hard to get into shape. You guys should to. At the rate you're going, you won't make it to your 60's.
patrick		Look, Leonard. Your mom, to her, a tasty meal is just a way of showing she cares.
leonard		She doesn't! Tonight she served spaghetti and meatballs from a can. The amount of sodium alone can wreck havoc on a person's blood pressure. Not to mention...
patrick		Leonard, people just don't drop dead from eating meatballs.
gus		I can't take your Halloween candy.
malee		You'll be doing me a favor. Chocolate gives you zits. Besides, if I want to keep this firm ass as an adult, I gotta develop good eating habits now.
gus		 Maybe just a snickers.
malee		So work is good?
gus		To be honest, I can't wait till this job is finished. This place is creepy. You know, a boy died here like right before we started working.
malee		Rudy.   His name was Rudy.
gus		You knew him?
malee		He was one of my best friends. Remember that funeral I went to?
gus		That was him?
malee		I thought you knew. Two boys threw a flaming cocktail at him. Can you imagine killing someone like that? How evil can you get?
ashley		Jeff Laskey is dead.
jim		What?
ashley		He committed suicide in his jail cell last night. Sally Yngve called just now to tell me.
jacob		Why are you smiling?    A boy died.
ashley		No, a monster that murdered my son died. Justice is served; end of story.
kenny		He used his bed sheet, waited until lights out and then jumped.
jacob		That's terrible.
kenny		His cell mate let him hang there the entire night.
jacob		I'm sorry, Kenny.
kenny		Like you even give a shit. I bet when you heard, you started dancing.
jacob		No.
kenny		I knew he wouldn't make it. It's my fault too. Jeff wasn't a saint when I met him, but he sure as hell wasn't headed here.  That fucking asshole!
jacob		An IPOD!   Sweet!
ashley		You like it?
jacob		I love it.     You guys went crazy this year.
jim		I'm going to shower.
ashley		Jim, Jacob still has one more present.
jim		I thought we were going to wait.
jacob		No, do it now! Now!
ashley		After serious debate, your father and I have decided... to adopt A BABY!
jacob		What?
jim		We're gonna adopt a baby. Hopefully a boy.
leonard		May I be excused?
grace		No!
malee		Why do I have to do this? It's Christmas break.
yacco		You'll be one step ahead in January.
malee		Just because you're an atheist, I don't get to celebrate the holidays.
yacco		Malee.
malee		I'm going for a bike ride.
yacco		There's a foot of snow outside.
malee		The streets are ploughed. Besides, I like looking at all the lights.
yacco		Be home in an hour. Be careful.
malee		Freeze!   That's right.
leonard		Don't worry, white male infants are the hardest to come by. 60 minutes did a whole story on it.
malee		Since when do you watch 60 minutes?
leonard		Since I was in the hospital. They said, any adoption agency worth its salt has at least a three year waiting list. By the time your parents get a kid, you'll be in college. You think they'll want to start over again with that baby shit?
jacob		No, but it's like they're trying to replace Rudy.
leonard		It doesn't matter cause it's not gonna happen.
malee		I'm thirsty.  Can you get us some drinks?
leonard		Why me?
malee		Because it's the gentlemanly thing to do.
jacob		I'll get the drinks.
malee		I'll go with you.
leonard		Why are you all of a sudden going to get the drinks?
malee		 Because you've upset me, and I don't want to see you right now.
leonard		Fine, I'll get the drinks.
malee		I need a favor. It's big. I need you to hide something for me.
jacob		Hide what?
malee		Promise, you won't freak.
jacob		I won't.
malee		You said, you wouldn't freak!
jacob		That's a gun.
malee		I know.
jacob		Where'd you get it?
malee		I can't tell you. I just need you to hide it for a while. When all is cool, I'll come for it.
jacob		Why can't you keep it?
malee		My mother is a total snoop. She goes through my stuff like all the time.  Please, Jacob. Somebody's life might depend on it.
jacob		Is it loaded?
malee		No, but I do have some bullets.
jacob		Nobody has the combination, but me. Besides, I could be building a bomb in here, and they wouldn't even know.
jacob		I sent in some comics for ya.   The X-men one is pretty sweet.
kenny		That last batch was awesome.
jacob		I better get going, I don't want to miss my bus.
kenny		Before you go, I got some news. Apparently, the parole board feels I've been a model prisoner, so they're giving me early release.
jacob		What?   How can they do that?
kenny		I don't know. They just did. You're pissed, aren't you? I knew you would be.  It was an accident, Jacob.
jacob		So you're getting out.   Gonna head back to school, or...
kenny		Fuck school. I'm going to live with my Dad in New Mexico. He's working on a ranch out there.
jacob		You can't leave the state. That violates your probation. You'll have to...
kenny		My dad won't tell anyone. No one will even care I'm out there.
jacob		Your mom will.
kenny		Jacob, in the entire time I've been locked up, you were the only one who came to see me. Trust me, she won't care.
malee		200 dollars! Dad sent me 200 dollars!
yacco		No!  Your father... went out.     He's not home right now.
malee		You're acting weird.     What's going on?
yacco		Nothing.
malee		Well, do you want to come with me to the mall and spend it?
yacco		I'd prefer it if you'd put that money in the bank.  Fine, spend it. You'll have to do it alone though. I have a patient this afternoon. Have a good day.
patrick		Here's the deal. You know how my company flies me to Florida every April?
leonard		You and I have been going since I was eight. It's the guy's week off.
patrick		This year, I'm taking the girls. Just the girls. You're staying home.
leonard		Why can't we all go?
grace		I'm not staying here all alone. Besides, you said it yourself, you've been going for years. Give your sisters a chance.
leonard		Whatever.  I need money.
patrick		What for?
leonard		Clothes.    Nothing I have fits anymore.
grace		Your father and I aren't rich. You can't get a new wardrobe anytime you want.
leonard		What am I supposed to do, go to school naked?
grace		Wear a belt.
patrick		I'll give him some cash, he can get some clothes.
grace		No. He's gonna gain all his weight back in a few months. 
patrick		Grace.
grace		What?    It's true.
leonard		When I was fat. Now I don't have to wear a T-shirt when I go swimming. Who knows, maybe I could even get lucky.
jacob		You're still ugly, though.
leonard		I don't understand what my mother's problem is. It's like the thinner I get, the more she hates me.
jacob		She's probably jealous. Maybe you should put her on that diet.
leonard		Anytime I mention it, my mother goes crazy.
jacob		If you really want her to drop a few tons, put her in jail. Kenny's lost about 30 pounds since he's been incarcerated, and he was already thin.
leonard		Really?
jacob		Yeah. Jail is the perfect weight loss program. You take a fat tub, throw them in a room and force them to eat right and exercise. Don't let them out till they do.
yacco		Malee, dinner!
malee		I got a new look. You know, for Spring. What do you think?
yacco		You look...
malee		Beautiful?
yacco		Different. What happened to your glasses?
malee		Contacts. It took me like forty five minutes to get them in, but beauty is pain.
yacco		Honey, in the future, I'd like to know if you're going to radically change your appearance. Clean your stuff up and come down for dinner.
gus		Malee?   My God, you look...
malee		Different?
gus		Beautiful.     You look beautiful.
malee		I felt like I needed a change, you know?
gus		I bet you're driving the boys at school wild.
malee		Boys my age are so immature. I'm more attracted to older gentlemen.
gus		You don't want somebody that much older than you. An age difference can cause problems.
malee		What kind of problems?
gus		A lot of times when a couple has an age difference, they wind up splitting up because they want different things.
malee		You mean sex.
gus		No.
malee		Are you impatient?
gus		No, but when I was a kid.
malee		Why don't you have a girlfriend?
gus		I did, but it didn't work out.
malee		How old was she?
gus		About my age.
malee		See that, age wasn't an issue, yet you still wanted different things. I don't think it's about age. 
leonard		 Have a good flight!
ashley		We're home.
jacob		Hi.
ashley		Could you come downstairs for a minute. We have a surprise for you.
jim		This is Keith Gardner. You're new brother. Keith our son, Jacob.
keith		It's nice to meet you.
jacob		You get top bunk.
keith		I'm kind of afraid of heights.
jacob		Sucks to be you.
keith		I never thought my future brother would have a KOOL AID stain, smeared across his face.
jacob		Fuck you, it's a birthmark!
keith		We're getting off on the wrong foot.
jacob		When my parents said they were taking in an orphan, I pictured a baby. So what happened, your parents die or something?
keith		I was given up at birth.
jacob		You gonna try and find your mother when you're 18?
keith		As far as I'm concerned, the fact she had me was enough. I don't need to show up one day and disrupt her life.
jacob		Oh, but it's okay to just show up one day and disrupt mine?
kenny		You're blaming me for this?
jacob		No.   But can you believe it?
kenny		Maybe this is the only way they can get over Rudy's death.
jacob		He's a person not a fucking vase.
kenny		I know.
jacob		I gotta get out of there. I can't live in that house for one more day. I want to go with you to New Mexico.
kenny		No way. You've never even   been out on the road.
jacob		So.
kenny		It's not easy. After first night falls, you'll be pissing yourself.
jacob		No, I won't.
kenny		You don't need me to run away from home.
jacob		That's not what this is about.
kenny		Yes, it is.  And you want to come with ME of all people. Are you forgetting, I was the one who killed Rudy!
jacob		That was an accident.
kenny		If this is what you want.   Alright.
malee		Is that Dad? Can I talk to him?
yacco		Take some responsibility for yourself and grow... Hello?...
malee		Well, what do you expect?   All you ever do is yell at him.
yacco		Malee, you don't understand.
malee		He's my Dad! I'm sorry if it bothers you, but I love him. You keep this up then one day, when I'm old enough, I'll leave here and go and stay with him.
grace		Leonard?
grace		 Leonard, what's wrong?
grace		I'm calling 9-1-1!
grace		If I go downstairs, I won't be able to make it back up. Let me call 9-1-1 first, okay?
leonard		I hope someone is hungry.
grace		Get me out of here now!
leonard		No joke, Ma. For the next two weeks while Dad and the girls are away, you will be kept down here. I'll provide you with nutritious meals and plenty of water. You, mother, will learn what it means to be healthy.
grace		That's what this is about, food?
leonard		I'm trying to save your life, mom. Trying to give you a life. Cause I love you.
grace		My life is fine.   I don't need you to "save me".
leonard		You don't even realize how sick you are. It's a problem when an otherwise healthy woman can't drag her ass up a flight of stairs because she's so obese. You're staying down here.
gus		Hello?
malee		I made dinner, my love.   And I have a surprise.
gus		You've been in my apartment before, haven't you?
malee		Don't you like my body?
gus		Malee, stop.
malee		It's okay because I love you.
gus		To go call your mother.
malee		But we're soulmates.
yacco		I don't know what to say to you.
keith		Wanna play some catch?
jacob		Where the hell did you get this?
keith		The closet. Ow, what's wrong?
jacob		Did I say you could play with the glove? Did I?
keith		No, I just...
jacob		Everything, and I mean, EVERYTHING in this room is mine. You are not allowed to touch a thing, especially the glove.
keith		Okay, okay.
jacob		If you tell my parents what I said, I'll kill you. I'll shoot you in the fucking face, I swear it!
jacob		 What's wrong now?
ashley		I was looking at a picture of you and Rudy when you were born. God, I miss him.
jacob		But you have Keith now
ashley		What the hell does that mean?
jacob		You have Keith. Two boys again. Everything is fine.
ashley		We didn't adopt Keith to replace Rudy.
jacob		Didn't you?
ashley		For your information, your father and I discussed adopting for years.
jacob		 Right. Maybe if it was me who died, you wouldn't need another kid to get over it.
ashley		How can you say that? I never wanted either of my children to die.
jacob		But one of us did. If you had to choose which one, I bet you wish it was me.
ashley		I know you think we favored Rudy...
jacob		You did!    Admit it.
ashley		I admit he was easier to raise, but we didn't love him more. Jacob, listen to me. You came with a different set of challenges.
jacob		My birthmark.
ashley		It's not easy being different...
jacob		 I'm not different!! You always made me feel like something was wrong. There's nothing wrong with me.
ashley		I know...
jacob		No, you don't! It's like you don't know how to deal with me. You never did.
ashley		I'm sorry if that is how you feel. You do the best you can as a parent. You don't always know what's right. But you're my son. I'd do anything for you. I'd fight for you, I'd kill for you, I'd die for you.
jacob		Rudy used to say that exact same thing.
ashley		It's true. And as unchristian as it sounds, I still want the boy that killed Rudy dead. Someday, when you grow up, you'll understand what I mean. Someday.
grace		When Pat calls, and I don't answer, he'll know something is wrong. He'll know. I'll be fine.
grace		Open this door now! Let me out, God damn it! Leonard!
yacco		Before we begin, I want to apologize. I should have known what was going on with Malee.
gus		It's my fault. I knew she had a crush on me. I guess, I felt bad for her. She's a very unhappy girl.
yacco		This is your therapy. Not mine. Why was it therapeutic?
gus		I slept last night. I can't remember the last time I slept so deep or so sound. I don't remember dreaming or anything.
yacco		Why do you think that is?
gus		One of the last fires I ever fought was a brownstone, beautiful. The place was burned from roof to basement. Whole family was wiped out. When I was upstairs, inspecting, I found a girl. She couldn't have been more than 12. 
yacco		What did you do?
gus		Exactly what she wanted. I placed my hand over her mouth and what was left of her nose, and I... I killed her. I told myself it was the right thing to do, but I've never been sure.
yacco		What does this have to do with Malee?
gus		When I saw her last night, she had the same look on her face as that girl. She just wanted me to take away her pain.
yacco		Would you mind if we... cut out early today? No charge.
gus		I understand.
malee		 Why does he hate me?
grace		Leonard!
grace		Leonard, don't you smell that...?  Oh God, he can't. Leonard! Leonard, the gas is on!
grace		No!
nurse		It's alive!
leonard		What happened?
nurse		Gas leak.
leonard		My mom, she's...
nurse		She's fine. They've taken her into surgery. She blew out her knees somehow. We're trying to get your father on the phone right now.
leonard		I...
nurse		Shh. You need your rest. Everything is fine now.
kenny		We got sleeping bags, a tent, canteens and a lantern. 
jacob		 Cool.
kenny		You're acting weird.    You gonna chicken out?
jacob		No.
kenny		You better not. I already packed twice the amount of shit. I can't carry it all alone.
jacob		I'll be there.
kenny		Good. I'm telling you, man. It's gonna be great.
jacob		I guess.
kenny		Come on. You can't be a pussy all your life.
jacob		 I know.
kenny		I'll see you tonight.    Don't be late.
grace		Leonard!
leonard		I'm sorry, mom. I didn't mean to leave the gas on. It was an accident. And everything that happened, I... I just thought that maybe, I could help you.
grace		Leonard, my mother died at 52. We had to cremate her body because they didn't make a coffin big enough for her to fit in. Even if they had, no one could have carried it.  I loved her so much. I don't want that to happen to me.
leonard		It doesn't have to.
grace		Even if I can manage the food... Can you honestly see me, running a marathon?
leonard		You don't have to run a marathon. You just have to run to the end of the block. It's not so hard as you think it is.
grace		I'll try.
leonard		Did you tell him what happened?
grace		I told him there was a gas leak.
leonard		I meant...
grace		I know what you meant. I didn't tell him. I don't think I will.
kenny		You're late.
jacob		I'm here.
kenny		Put this on.
jacob		If people see me riding around in the middle of the night, we're screwed. You didn't bring a disguise?
kenny		Who gives a shit what I'm up to.
jacob		Yeah, but if we cut through the construction site, we'll hit the railroad tracks. It's faster and no one will bother us.
kenny		Good point.
kenny		What's wrong?
jacob		I can't do this.
kenny		What?!
kenny		Son of a bitch! I knew it.     I knew you'd chicken...
jacob		I can't let you leave, Kenny.     You have to pay for what you did.
kenny		Whoa, whoa hold on. Alright, I... I won't go. I'll stay here. I'll do my probation.
jacob		You killed him. I gotta do this... for my family. It's the only way.
kenny		Jacob, I told ya, it... it was an accident. I swear. Please, don't. This isn't you.
jacob		I know. But I can't be a pussy all my life.
keith		I thought I wasn't supposed to touch this.
jacob		You're awake.
keith		Yeah.
jacob		It's yours. Just don't leave it outside. If it gets wet, the leather will crack.
keith		I'll take good care of it.   I know this was Rudy's.
jacob		Just a b-b gun. I returned it to a friend of mine.  I'm sorry for being such an asshole to ya.
keith		Does this mean we're brothers now?
jacob		 Yeah. We're brothers.
gus		Malee?
malee		Don't be mad. I was just worried about you. Now I'm out of your life forever. Goodbye. Thanks for not pressing any charges.
malee		Quite a storm last night.
jacob		Huh?   Oh, yeah.
malee		You know, your birthday's coming up. Any hints as to what you might like?
jacob		Whatever you get me will be fine.
malee		 Right.
jacob		 Never better.
****Dialogues from script :15_minutes.txt****

emil		Don't fool around.
oleg		Okay.
emil		Did you hear what I said?
oleg		I want to document my trip to America.
immigration officer		Next.  Could I see your documents, please?
emil		Yes sir.
immigration officer		What is your intended purpose of your visit to the United States?
emil		Two weeks holiday.
immigration officer		How much money are you carrying with you?
emil		I have five-hundred dollars.
immigration officer		Can you show me?  Sir, no cameras in the FIS area!
emil		Yes.
immigration officer		Please join us.  Come on forward.
emil		Is there a problem?
immigration officer		No, you're travelling together.  I want to talk to you together.  Hi, how are you?  Can I take a look at your documents?  Are you related?
oleg		Yes...he's my friend.
immigration officer		Okay.  You're a Czech national and you're a Russian national.  How do you know one another?
emil		We are both from Prague.
immigration officer		 How long are you planning to stay?
emil		Two weeks.
immigration officer		I'd like to speak for himself, okay?
emil		He doesn't speak English.
oleg		I speak English.
immigration officer		 Then answer my questions.  Where were you planning to stay during the two weeks that you're here?
oleg		New York.
immigration officer		Yes, we're in New York now.  But where are you planning to stay in New York?
oleg		A cheap hotel.
immigration officer		What are you coming here to do?
oleg		I'm here for movies.
immigration officer		Movies...to be in the movies or to see movies?
oleg		Yes.  No.  Both.  When I was a boy, I see movie at school called "It's a Wonderful Life" directed by Frank Capra. Ever since I want to come to America. Land of the free.  Home of the brave.  A land where anyone can be anything. As long as they are white.
immigration officer		Excuse me?
emil		He made joke, bad joke.  First time on airplane...
immigration officer		Well, they've got valid visas, but they don't have much money.  Uh... and I'm not...uh, I think there's a possibility they may be coming to live and reside.
supervisor		Look how long the line is.  We gotta move 'em out.  I'll take them down to secondary.
eddie		So we're waitin' to hit this warrant - we got Emergency Service with the heavy weapons standin' by - ready to go.  I say, lemme get a cigar outta the car.  I go to get the cigar and BOOM!  All the sudden I turn around and a kid with a shotgun let one go.  Right where I was standin'.  That coulda been it.  I coulda had my head blown off and for what?  Some stupid kid got panicky, takes the safety off and it's over.  If I hadn't gone back for that cigar - for a bad habit - I would've had my head blown off.
hawkins		Jesus Christ.
paulie		Speakin' of bad habits, everybody okay?
hawkins		Another martini.
leon		Coffee for me, I gotta slow down.
eddie		Vodka tonic.
leon		 Maybe you could just put in a shot of Martell?
eddie		What's the kid gonna say - sorry? Meanwhile I'm not here anymore. Like last week - we were at the morgue and this guy was all chopped up - spleen here - liver there - his heart in a pan. Six hours ago this guy was walkin' his dog or buyin' a quart of milk.  Who knows?  But some kid's robbed him for $3 or some shit and shot him and now you can't tell if he's a piece of beef or a human being and I'm thinkin' that's me. Sooner or later.  That's me.
hawkins		Sooner or later that's everybody.
eddie		Not chopped up.  Not chopped up like that.  I mean, what do I got left? Coupla articles.  A medal or two. Plaque here and there and in a coupla years no one remembers me anymore.
hawkins		I think you're getting a little moody there, Eddie.
eddie		I'm not moody.
hawkins		Isn't he a little moody?
leon		Of course he's moody.  He thinks he's in love.
hawkins		In love?  With who?
eddie		How old are your kids?
hawkins		My kids?  Let's see...Susan's 15. Aundrea's 9.  Don't tell me you're thinking about having a kid!  How old are you?  Never mind. Let me just tell you this: Every stupid cliche you hear about kids - they change your life, they make you a better person, they make you whole...  It's all true!  Before I had kids when friends talked about their kids, I wanted to vomit.  Now -- I get it.  Am I right, Leon?
leon		Absomotherfuckin'lutely.  You can have all three of my ex-wives.  But somebody so much as looks sideways at my four girls -- I'd kill 'em.  You haven't seen my youngest have you?
hawkins		Paulie, you've got kids, right?
paulie		My kids don't talk to me anymore but they were great when they were young.
leon		 Unique's home.
eddie		Paulie, I need the cure.
paulie		Step into my office.
hawkins		So you got your kids listening to Opera? You still singing in the church on the weekends?
secondary officer		Okay.  You work in a vodka factory.  I understand that.  And what kind of work do you do?
emil		I am butcher.
secondary officer		You're a butcher?  What do you use pig intestines for?
emil		You stuff sausage in it.
secondary officer		And what do you do with the bones?
emil		Dog food.
secondary officer		Are you married?
emil		No.  Are you proposing?
eddie		Will you marry me?  Wanna get married? What are you doin' Saturday?
leon		When?
eddie		Tomorrow.  At lunch.
leon		You ready?
eddie		The thrill of the hunt.  I love it.
oleg		 Look.  Times Square.  Just like in the movies!
emil		 Don't speak Russian!
oleg		 Why?  Why do I always have to speak to you in Czech?
emil		 Because I don't like your ugly language. I heard enough of it in school!  Now speak Czech or English.  And don't fool around anymore.  You almost got us thrown out!
oleg		Look.  New videocameras.  Color viewfinder.  Image stabilization. Solarization.  Night vision.
emil		We have no money.  Come on.
cabbie		Where you wanna go, buddy?
emil		Here.
hawkins		So what's unique?
eddie		Not what.  Who.
hawkins		That's unique.
eddie		Yeah.  And he still went to the party.
lookout		Top floor.  Back room.
eddie		Yeah.  I make big cases, they make the news and I look good.  But the problem with becoming a star is downtown.  They shoot at stars.  Now be quiet.  Shhh.
hawkins		You're worried for my safety.  I'm touched.
eddie		Keep them out of my way.
hawkins		Okay.  You ready?
eddie		Yeah, yeah.  Jesus.
hawkins		 COME ON!  COME ON!  YOU FUCKING GUYS, LET'S MOVE IT!
eddie		What's your rush?  Going to a party?
unique		Why you chasin' me, man?
eddie		I don't know.  You always come outta your house that way?
unique		It's not my house, man.  I don't live here.
eddie		Well, sounds like burglary to me.
unique		I know you man.
hawkins		 Any chance we can do that again?
eddie		Again?  I didn't wanna do it the first time.
emil		Turn that off!  Get the bags.
oleg		Why should I carry your bag?  I am not a dog.
emil		For five years I paid for your stupidness - you'll carry my bag for the rest of my life if I say so.  Unless you refuse, Oleg.
oleg		What?
emil		Smell like chemicals...for smoking drugs.
milos		Emil???!
emil		Surprise!  Surprise!
emil		Your sister said she didn't know where you were so you shouldn't write to her with return address if you're hiding.
milos		Did you hurt her?
emil		You know me...I never hurt anybody. Where's the money?
oleg		Hello, Tamina.
milos		Take your eyes off her, Oleg!  It's his fault.  Trying to get the bank clerk's phone number?!  I wasn't going to wait!!!
emil		Milos.  Get my money!
milos		 We spent it!
emil		Ha. Ha.
milos		Look at the way we live.  I'm a plumber. You think I'd be working if I had money?!
emil		A job?
milos		Yes, the money is good.
emil		As a plumber?!
milos		It's easy to learn.
emil		A job??  As a plumber???  You think I come to America to work!
milos		We started over, you can too.
emil		 You spent all the money while I was in prison?  Now you tell me to get a job fixing toilets?!?
oleg		What are you looking for?
emil		I'm going to make a bohemian barbecue.
mugger		Got any spare change?  How 'bout a spare twenty?
jordy		Look, I don't have time for you, get out of my way!!
mugger		Alright, how 'bout all your fuckin' money?
jordy		Okay, you're under arrest!  Now you happy?
mugger		Fire Department?  Firemen don't carry guns.
jordy		Oh yeah?  Guess again.
mugger		Hey.  C'mon, you can't leave me like this.  Some freak'll come by and stab me!
louie		Lieutenant - take up your line and relieve Ladder Company 60 on the top floor.
jordy		Hey, Louie, were you first due?
louie		Yeah, I radioed you guys right away 'cause you got two roasts on the top floor but you don't hafta investigate cause homicide is up there.
jordy		Homicide?  Who let them up?  I didn't make it a crime scene yet.
louie		Hey, it's Eddie Flemming.
jordy		I heard.  Who the hell let them up there?
korfin		I don't know, you think Eddie will give me his autograph?
jordy		You see anything in the crowd?  Anybody suspicious?
korfin		Naw - I'm sure the suspect's not here.
jordy		Oh yeah, why?
korfin		'Cause Eddie woulda locked him up by now!
leon		So, it looks to me - from the sixty-nine position - that they were doin' each other but were so whacked out of their heads they set the pipe on the mattress, lit it up, and they got fried.  What do you think, Eddie?
eddie		I don't know.  We got the experts here. Show them what you found - I hope you don't mind, we came over to see if we could help.
korfin		Nah, not at all.  Detective Flemming - Bobby Korfin.  My Uncle Tony worked with you at 2-1 back when you were a rookie.
jordy		Could you put out the cigar?  Part of the job is picking up scents.
eddie		Oh, sure.
leon		Well, I found - check it out - crack pipe.  Looks like they got careless.
korfin		Sorry, bro.
jordy		Hey, that's great you guys got it all wrapped up, but you don't mind if we go through the routine?  It gives us somethin' to do.
eddie		No, we don't mind.  You mind Leon?
leon		No.  Go ahead.
jordy		Thanks.  Appreciate it.
korfin		Okay, Jordy - it was a fast fire, we got good patterns - about thirty minutes old.
jordy		Mouth's clean, too.
korfin		Clean?
jordy		Don't blow your nose!
korfin		But you knew that, right?
jordy		So the way you see it, two crack heads burned themselves up?
leon		That's what it looks like to me.
jordy		And while they're burning up, they're still goin' down on each other?  You got to hand it to them.
leon		 Yeah, well, some people got their priorities straight.
jordy		Evidence.  Of a homicide.
eddie		No, what is it?
jordy		Why don't you explain it, Bobby.  Hey Camello!  You mind punching a hole in the floor?
camello		No problem.  Excuse me, gentlemen.  You might wanna back up a little more.  Don't wanna get your pants wet.
korfin		They have not soot in their mouths, which means they weren't breathin' before the fire and that usually means they were deceased - and this piece of cloth that my partner found means they were wrapped up in something, probably doused with a flammable liquid and positioned like this on the bed.  To the untrained eye, it looks like an accident.
leon		What's he looking for?
eddie		A timer.
korfin		Here you go.  A big double homicide.
korfin		You see Eddie's face when I gave him the timer?  Wish I had a picture of it.
jordy		He knew all along.
korfin		What??
jordy		That's why he was so quiet.  He was testing us.
nicolette		Detective, does it look like a murder?
eddie		We don't know that yet.  It's much too early.  There's a lot to be done.
nicolette		How many victims are up there?
eddie		There are two bodies found at this point.
nicolette		Can we go up to the crime scene?
eddie		You know you can't do that.  C'mon.
nicolette		Is it drug related?
eddie		We don't know.  When I have more I'll let you know.
nicolette		Detective...what's that you're holding in your hand?  Evidence?
korfin		What?
jordy		There was a woman - I think she wanted to talk to us.  She looked scared.  Oh shit!  Oh no!
mugger		You motherfuckin' bastard!  She stripped me!  It was a bag lady!  She touched me all over, it was disgusting.
jordy		I'm sorry.  I'm really sorry.
mugger		A dog pissed on me!!  I'm gonna sue you for this!  You violated my civil rights!
jordy		Your civil rights?!  You tried to rob me!  I could arrest you right now! You're lucky you're walking away from this.  Now get outta here.
emil		 Self-esteem?  Self-esteem??
emil		 Turn that fucking thing off!
oleg		 I'm not filming.  I'm watching Milos die.  It's just like a move but realer.
emil		Speak English!
oleg		 You said speak Czech!
emil		How you erase this?
oleg		I'll do it.  Don't hurt my camera!
emil		Stupid, Milos.  I didn't want to kill him.  What's this?
sexy voice		Hi?
emil		Hello?
sexy voice		Are you looking for companionship?
oleg		Whore?
emil		I'm homesick.  You have Eastern European girl?  A Czech girl?
sexy voice		Matter of fact, I have a lovely Czech girl.
emil		I take her.  Send her!
jordy		Now that you know him, maybe you can get extra work in the next movie they make about him.
korfin		Yeah?
jordy		Maybe you can be his stand-in.
duffy		 Who did cause and origin?
jordy		Who do you think, Chief?!
duffy		Then why didn't you talk to the reporter?
jordy		'Cause we got more important things to do, like finding out who did it.
duffy		Don't you guys understand?  It's all about image.  The better we look the more money I get to pay you guys overtime.
korfin		Yeah, right.
duffy		What was that, Korfin?
korfin		I said, yeah, you're right, Chief.  As soon as we get somethin' we'll let you alert the media.
duffy		You do that, wiseguy.  Now let's solve this thing before Eddie Flemming does.
garcia		Hey guys, I got your torch.  He just gave a full confession.
max		It's my fire!  Screw homicide.  I'll tell you guys everything!
jordy		What's that on your forehead, Max? That's a nice attention getter.
max		Yeah, I'm religious.  I'm not an Atheist like you!  Now, are you guys gonna arrest me, or not?
jordy		How did you start the fire this time?
max		I used an accelerant.
jordy		Yeah?  What kind?
max		 Hey, by the way, I'm really sorry about your wife leavin' you.
korfin		Max.
max		 ...Yeah, and with your old man dying last year you - what's it?  Just you and the dog now?
korfin		Max!
max		Does it feel bad - I mean the new guy your ex-wife's seeing - I hear he's a big shot downtown.
jordy		That's it!  You're outta here.
max		That's it.  I'm suing.
korfin		Get in line.
jordy		What's so funny.  How does he know so much about me?  Who tells him my life story?
garcia		He hangs around downstairs.  The guys talk to him.  He's a joke...
jordy		He's no joke!  One day he's gonna graduate from trash can fires and do something big.
garcia		Okay.  Okay.  We'll ban him from the station.
robert hawkins		Good evening, I'm Robert Hawkins and this is Top Story.  Tonight we bring you an exclusive interview with Stephen Geller - who horrified the nation two years ago when he went berserk and murdered three clerks in a Manhattan shoe store.  But now, Mr. Geller's claim, spoken softly and articulately, is that he is the victim.  According to Mr. Geller, the events of that fateful day were not his fault but were the fault of his psychiatrist.  Hard to believe...watch.
stephen geller		This had nothing to do with shoes that didn't fit or my relationship with my father who, as you know, made a fortune selling penny loafers in the fifties. These people died because of the criminal actions of my doctor.
robert hawkins		Your doctor?
stephen geller		Yes.  My psychiatrist didn't insist that I stay on my medication.
robert hawkins		...so you feel absolutely no responsibility for killing these people?
stephen geller		It was my finger that pulled the trigger, but I'm not morally responsible.  My psychiatrist knew what I was capable of.  How could I know. I'm not a doctor.
robert hawkins		You seem very savvy for a man who's been found mentally incompetent to stand trial.
stephen geller		Look, I'm a victim here, too.  I was a year away from getting my masters in Art, now I'll never graduate.  My life has been permanently disrupted.
robert hawkins		Permanently disrupted?  Aren't you selling paintings now for quite a lot of money?  Hasn't this 'incident' as you call it, jump started your career as an artist?
stephen geller		Look, I'm in here.  You call this a career move?
robert hawkins		And isn't there a movie in the works about you?
stephen geller		We're in negotiations, that's correct.
robert hawkins		But doesn't the Son of Sam Law prevent criminals from profiting from their crimes?
stephen geller		That doesn't apply to me because I'm not a criminal.  I'm not a criminal!  I wasn't convicted.
emil		I love America.  No one is responsible for what they do.
emil		Oleg, get in bathroom, stay there and shut up!
honey		Hi, I'm Honey.
emil		Where's Czech girl?
honey		Baby, I'm anybody you want me to be. I'm a little schoolgirl, I'm mommy, I'm a Czech girl.
emil		I ordered a Czech girl.  Daphne, you know her?
honey		It's an outcall service run out of an apartment.  I don't meet the other girls.  Aren't you gonna get undressed?
emil		Where is escort service?
honey		That's confidential.  Could you put the money on the dresser?
emil		I like to talk to the person who runs the service.  Can you give me address?
honey		Look.  Do we have a problem here? There's no reason to have a problem. I'm gonna make you feel real good.  You wanna Czech girl? After I'm done with you, you won't miss her.  Now why don't you pay me?
emil		 Listen to me.  I don't want sex.  Just give me the address and then you go.
honey		 Look, man, I don't give a shit if you want sex or not, but you're payin' for my time.
emil		Give me the address!!
honey		Alright, alright - don't hurt me! Please, it's in my book, in my purse!
composite artist		What about her cheek bones?
jordy		Her cheek bones are prominent and her eyes were huge.  Big, blue eyes and when I saw her, she looked scared.  Like she was looking to get away.  But she was absolutely beautiful.
korfin		-- From Czechoslovakia?  And how long have they been livin' in your building?  Milos and Tamina Karlova.  They were quiet and kept to themselves.  Landlord don't know who your girl is.
jordy		How long they been livin' here?
korfin		You hear that question, Garcia?
garcia		Yeah, I got Immigration on the phone - they've been here illegally.
korfin		Well, they're definitely permanent residents now.
garcia		I got the owner of the plumbing company Milos worked for.
korfin		Why don't we get some sleep and we'll go see him in the morning.
jordy		You go home.  I'm takin' your car and goin' back to the crime scene.
korfin		Aren't you tired?
jordy		If I go home I won't be able to fall asleep anyway.
korfin		 She keepin' you up?  Like to meet her, huh?  She'd make you forget your ex wife.  Cure your insomnia.
eddie		Okay to smoke?
jordy		It's your crime scene now.  You can do what you want.
eddie		Watch the news?
jordy		Nah, I musta missed it.
eddie		Well, just so you know.  I gave you guys the credit.
jordy		Well, just so you know, I don't care about that stuff.
eddie		Nah, why should you?
jordy		I don't even watch TV.
eddie		Good.  Good.  Commendable.
jordy		Did you get a report from the M.E.?
eddie		Sure.  But I would like to ask you something.  You got a problem with me?
jordy		If you found me steppin' on your crime scene - it might piss you off, too.  What about the report?
eddie		You were right, they were both dead before the fire.  The male was stabbed so hard the killer broke off the tip of the knife in his spine.  That's usually an indicator of something personal.
jordy		The Super said he'd seen her before but she didn't live here.
eddie		Pretty.
jordy		 Hmmmm.
eddie		Maybe you don't care about that either.  Prettiest suspect I've had in awhile.
jordy		Who says she's a suspect?
eddie		What would you call her?
jordy		Look, I'm not even sure she has anything to do with this.  I saw her outside after the fire - thought it was a lead. Maybe she saw something.  Maybe she was visiting somebody here.  Who knows?
eddie		Obviously they weren't having sex.  As you pointed out.  So why go through all the trouble of putting 'em like that?
jordy		Maybe it's a ritual thing or someone trying to send a message.  Burial rites are taken very seriously in Eastern Europe.  It could be to humiliate them. Just burning them up, no proper funeral, it's like condemning them to hell.
eddie		Eastern Europe.  Like what?  Romania? Hungary?
jordy		Or Czechoslovakia.  The Slavs have been fighting the Germans and the Russians for a thousand years.  These are very intense people and they take things personally.
eddie		Yeah?  Where?  You sure it was a knife? Uh-huh.  Really?  Okay.  We've got another murder - in a hotel on Eighth Avenue.  A stabbing.  Clerk said the room was rented by a Russian...
jordy		I'll come with you.
eddie		There wasn't a fire.  There'll be nothing for you to do.
jordy		I can watch you, Eddie.  Maybe I'll learn something.
eddie		This isn't homicide school.
jordy		My parents are from Poland.  I can help with the Eastern European angle.
eddie		You're Polish?
jordy		My folks are.
eddie		Stay here.
oleg		This is second day in America.  First day was very exciting.  Full of thrills and chills.  Over there, is co-star of my new movie, Emil!
emil		 Who is he?
vendor		New York's finest.  This is his case.
emil		Do you know how much killer gets for movie rights?
vendor		 In here, says he wants a million.
emil		Million?!  The killer gets one million dollars for a television interview?
vendor		Hey, tabloids paid Ted Bundy - famous serial killer - half a million for his interview.  And how much you think Monica got for writing book about the President coming on to her?  It pays to be a killer or a whore in this country. Look, you want magazine or not?
emil		Yes.  Both.
oleg		And these.
emil		 Get a taxi.
blind woman		Thank you, son.
eddie		Where is she?
leon		Takin' a bath.
eddie		Any I.D.?
leon		Still unknown but we're running prints. Kid over there caught the case.
eddie		It's okay.
tommy		Tommy Cullen.  Heard a lot about you. Nice to meet you.  Here's what we got. A girl in there, figure her to be a prostitute, looks like she was fighting for her life.  She's got defense wounds on her hands.  Right this way - in the bathroom.
eddie		After you.
tommy		Room was registered to a Francis Capra.
jordy		Capra?  That's not Czech or Russian. Who said he sounded Russian?
tommy		The clerk?
eddie		Check the switchboard, see what phone calls were made from this room.
tommy		I'll do it.
murphy		Clothes were off in the other room.  Tub is dry except for the blood.
eddie		Any of you guys take a piss lately?
leon		Yeah.
eddie		C'mere.  You wanna go to homicide school?  Here - make yourself useful.
murphy		If you look here where he missed and hit the wall you see that the marks aren't deep but they're kinda wide... not your everyday kitchen or pocket knife.
eddie		What if the tip was broken off?
murphy		Could be.  Then we should find it here somewhere.
eddie		I think we've already found it.
tommy		There was only one call from this room last night.  I dialed it.  It's an escort service.
leon		Did you identify yourself?
tommy		Hey, I'm new but I'm not stupid.
eddie		Call communications and get an address on that number.
jordy		You goin' to the escort service?
eddie		You got any better ideas?
jordy		Mind if I ride along with you?
eddie		This has nothing to do with your fire.
jordy		But what if it does?  You might need my help.
man		Hey, Eddie, can I get your autograph for my son?
eddie		I'll let you know what happens.
jordy		This is ridiculous.  I'm not gonna be in your way - we can talk the case over.
eddie		Tell you what - I'll flip you a coin. If you win you can come with me.  If you don't win, you don't come.
jordy		I'll call it... tails.
eddie		Okay.  I'll call it.  Heads.
eddie		Oh here.  A souvenir.
jordy		Two heads.
eddie		Better than one.
eddie		Police.  We'd like to ask you a few questions.
eddie		 Homicide, Miss Hearn.  It's Detective Eddie Flemming.  Open up.
rose		You!  I've seen you on TV!
rose		Just a minute.  Shit.  And I don't have a camera.  Hold on a second.
eddie		We don't have her I.D. yet, but one of your girls was killed last night at the King Edward Hotel.
rose		Oh my G-d.  Honey!  Honey's dead?
jordy		Do you remember the man who called?
rose		Yeah.  He wanted a girl from Czechoslovakia, but I sent him Honey 'cause once they get there, you know, it doesn't really matter - Honey was killed...?  Poor girl...
eddie		Do you have any Czech girls working for you?
rose		No.
eddie		Did you tell him you did?
rose		 Boy, she's so popular all the sudden.
eddie		What are you saying?
rose		Daphne.  Another guy came in asking me about her, too.
jordy		This her?
rose		Yeah.  Sort of.  I tried to recruit her, gave her my card.  She said she'd think about it but I never heard from her.
butch girl		 Beautiful eyes.
eddie		Who came by looking for her?
rose		He said he was her cousin.  I told him where she works.  They were just here.
eddie		Describe him.
rose		Tall, short-haired, scary eyes.  Second guy with him was...shorter, with a wrestler's build.  And he wouldn't turn his videocamera off me.
eddie		He had a videocamera?  Where is she? Quickly!
rose		She washes hair up at Ludwig's - a salon on 63rd and Madison.
eddie		Leon - meet us at 63rd and Madison. Hair salon.  Ludwig's.
jordy		 I'm on my way with Eddie.  Ludwig's. 63rd and Madison.  The suspects might be there already.
eddie		You thirsty?
jordy		I'm on duty.
eddie		 So am I.  Alright, I'll go inside and you cover the back.
jordy		Of course.
eddie		Hey!  I always wanted to be a cop when I was a kid.  I dreamed of running up to a door, kicking it in, pulling my gun and yelling 'Freeze!' at the bad guy! What'd you dream about?
jordy		I wanted to run up to a building on fire, kick in the door, rush into the smoke and save a kid.
eddie		Then I guess we're doin' this the right way, aren't we?  If we pull up to a burning building I'll gladly let you go first.
receptionist		Daphne?  In the back.  Probably shampooing a customer's hair.
ludwig		Why are you messing with your hair color again?  You're going to kill your hair. You won't look good with black hair.
daphne		I want to do it, alright?
ludwig		Well, then do it after work.  A customer's waiting.
emil		I...I have a temper.
ludwig		Daphne, will you be coming back to work?
daphne		In a minute, Ludwig.
emil		Smart girl.  I'm glad you're not a whore.  But washing hair?  This is no job for a woman as beautiful as you. They should be washing your hair.
jordy		...Daphne?
eddie		You don't have to be afraid.  We're here to protect you.  Come with me.  We want to talk to you.  You speak English alright?
eddie		Did he give you these?  Was he just here?
leon		 Stay with her.
emil		 Put the fuckin' camera down!  Let's go!
eddie		Split up!
oleg		Emil, look!
eddie		Are you hit?
leon		No.  I'm okay.
jordy		 Bobby, Bobby!  Where're you hit?!
korfin		It hurts.  Aw, Jesus!
jordy		Lay down.  Stay down, Bobby.
leon		He got my gun!  Motherfucker was filming the whole time!
eddie		I know.  Relax.  Take it easy.  Don't worry, we'll get those fuckers.
nicolette		Detective - can you tell us what happened here?
eddie		I can't talk right now.  We have some things to take care of.
nicolette		I understand, but I noticed that the Fire Marshall is here with you.  Is this somehow related to the fire department?
eddie		I really can't give out any information right now at this point.
nicolette		Okay.  But I do understand that your partner, Leon Jackson's been injured. Is that correct?
eddie		He was hurt, but not seriously.  He'll be fine.
nicolette		Do you have the suspect in custody?
eddie		Um...now is not a good time, okay. Detective Jackson's hurt.  He's fine. I've got a Fire Marshall shot, Detective Jackson is hurt but not seriously.
nicolette		 Alright, cut, cut, cut.
eddie		Yeah.  Now's not a good time.
nicolette		Alright.
eddie		Alright?
nicolette		Alright.
eddie		Alright.
nicolette		Okay.
daphne		I told your partner, I can't help.  I didn't see anything.
eddie		C'mon, start at the beginning.  You know these people?
daphne		Tamina was a friend of mine.  My shower was broken, she let me use theirs.
eddie		Go on.
daphne		If I tell you, will you arrest me?
eddie		Arrest you for what?  Why would we arrest you?
jordy		She just saw two of her friends killed! They probably threatened her.
eddie		Is that all there is?
daphne		No, no, don't talk to Immigration!
jordy		Why not?
eddie		Something back home?
daphne		...my little sister and I shared a flat - I came home one night and a man was raping her.  His gun was on the chair... He came at me and I shot him.
jordy		 Alright.  That's a justifiable homicide.
daphne		Yes, but he was a cop.
eddie		A cop?
daphne		 I'm from a small town in Slovakia.  Like the South here.  The Police is right, a civilian is wrong.  So I fled.
eddie		Look, we can help you but right now we have to deal with what's happening here. Tell us the truth...is that the truth?
daphne		You're a cop - you'll never believe me.
jordy		 Can I talk to you?
eddie		She's fucked.  Even if that story is true.
jordy		Raw deal.
eddie		You wanna talk to her alone?
jordy		Yeah.
eddie		What would your girlfriend think of that?
jordy		I don't have a girlfriend.
eddie		My point exactly.
jordy		I'm serious here.
eddie		So am I.
jordy		C'mon.  You intimidate her 'cause you're a celebrity.  She sees me differently.
eddie		You're her Savior?  Is she the kid you're gonna save from the burning building?
jordy		You know what I'm saying here.
eddie		Okay, tell you what, I'll give you a head start.  You take her to the station house.  Don't let her out of your sight. She's the only warm body we got left.
jordy		Hey.  I'm a professional.
eddie		Women like that have a way of turning professionals into amateurs.
oleg		Gotta light the scene better.  Now it's more moody... like a scene from THE THIRD MAN.
emil		Shut up.
oleg		Does it hurt?
emil		This is nothing.
oleg		Oh, shit.  I hate looking at that!
emil		Don't want to film this?
daphne		Now I become custody of police department?
jordy		If you cooperate with the DA - maybe they'll help you with your situation.
daphne		I will if they don't send me back.
jordy		They won't until this is over.
daphne		Are you married?
jordy		Divorced.
daphne		Do you live alone?  I've been in these clothes since...the killings.  Could we stop at your place? I could take a shower...before I go into custody?
jordy		I can't take you to my place.
daphne		Somewhere else?
eddie		I want to talk to you about something serious.
paulie		She's here.
nicolette		Hey, honey.
eddie		Hey.
nicolette		What is your problem?  Why'd you snap at me?  I just wanted a statement.
eddie		I can't...I can't answer you just because you want me to answer you!
nicolette		You didn't have to embarrass me in front of my colleagues.  You could give me something.
eddie		Oh, I'm sorry.  Did I embarrass you, sweetheart?  Oh...
nicolette		Stop it.
eddie		Maybe I should just, ya know...turn to the cameras and say, do you mind if we just work something out?
nicolette		Alright, alright, Eddie.  Don't patronize me.
eddie		I'm not.
nicolette		Yes you are.  I'm not just some reporter.  I don't just stick a microphone in your face.  You could give me something.
eddie		Yeah, well you took the camera and put it right down on the evidence.  That was...
nicolette		That was good.  You were holding the evidence.
eddie		You were merciless.  You didn't give a shit if you got me or not.
nicolette		Well, who was it that taught me how to do that?  Huh?
eddie		You're ruthless.
nicolette		You're not so bad yourself.
eddie		Could be Leon's.
nicolette		Jesus.  And last week you came over with blood on your shoes.  What am I going to do with you?
eddie		You know, I been thinkin'...these shoes might look nice with another pair of shoes next to them in the closet.
nicolette		What are you doing?  What are you saying?
eddie		Answer the phone.
nicolette		No.  Tell me what you want to say.
eddie		Answer it.
nicolette		Okay.  Okay.  Hold that thought just for a second.  They only call me when it's an emergency.  Just hold that thought.  Can you call back?
nicolette		What're you talking about?
nicolette		What?  Oh.  Okay.  Yeah.
eddie		That's good.
nicolette		Yeah.
eddie		Well, that's great.
nicolette		Okay.  That is great.  But I can't go now, we're in the middle of something here.
eddie		No.  Go ahead.  You're gonna be great.
nicolette		No.  No, listen to me here.  I want to know what you're talking about.  You know, the shoe thing and the marriages and...
eddie		I'll tell you tonight.  Let's do it tonight.  As soon as you get back we'll talk.  We'll talk.
nicolette		Promise?
eddie		I promise.  We'll talk.  You'll be great.  You'll be fine.  Go ahead, just imagine that, uh... Just look into the lens and imagine you're talking to me.
nicolette		Yeah.  I'll do that.  As long as you're not patronizing me.
eddie		Patronizing you... Nay, I love you.
nicolette		I love you.
eddie		Tonight.
nicolette		You promise?
eddie		Yeah.  I promise.
nicolette		Okay.  And you know what, I'll swing by my place, grab a couple pairs of shoes and maybe just test them out next to yours...How's that... Would that be a good thing.
eddie		Yeah, yeah.  Good thing.
nicolette		Okay.
eddie		See you later.  Good luck.
nicolette		Thank you.
eddie		Don't be late.
jordy		The men are out of quarters - practicing putting out fires.
daphne		So...the station is empty?
jordy		Yeah.  This way.
jordy		You considered becoming a prostitute?
daphne		Yes, I considered it.
jordy		Did you ever turn tricks before?
daphne		No.
jordy		What about back home?
daphne		No.
jordy		So you were never a prostitute?
daphne		What are you asking me?
jordy		I'm just trying to find out who you are.
daphne		Can you let me go?
jordy		Showers are this way.
daphne		You could shower with me.
jordy		I'll uh, I'll get you a towel.
daphne		I'm not a whore.  I'm not a whore.
jordy		I know.
daphne		You don't know.  I'm sorry.  I was desperate.  That's not me.  I shot a cop.  Can you imagine what they'll do to me when I got to prison?
jordy		They're not gonna send you right back.
daphne		I'm sorry.  I didn't mean to...I'm glad. Actually I'm glad it's over.  All this time.  Hiding.  Never being able to look anyone in the eyes. Always afraid that someone would find out who I was.  Never trusting anyone...
jordy		You can trust me.
oleg		What is it?
emil		The video of Milos and Tamina - I told you to erase it.
oleg		I did.
emil		And the whore's murder?  You didn't erase that either, did you?  Don't lie, I won't be angry.
oleg		Why not?
emil		Put the camera down, Oleg.
oleg		What is that?
emil		What does it look like?  It's an address book!
oleg		Let me get a shot of it.
emil		Sit down!
oleg		This way.  Hold it this way.  Good.
duffy		Hey.  Warsaw.
jordy		Hey, Chief, what are you doing here?
duffy		I came to see how the investigation was going.  I called and you're not here.  I wait up at the station and you don't even show up!!!  I beep you - you don't return my call.  Where the hell have you been?!
jordy		Ladder 20 was on the Rock for training. We stopped there... so she could get cleaned up.
duffy		What do you mean, 'cleaned up?'
jordy		I let her take a shower.
duffy		A shower!?  Did you take one, too?
jordy		No!  Nothing happened.
duffy		Oh really.  That's nice.  You took a homicide witness to take a shower after your partner was shot?  Are you out of your fucking mind??  Are you having that much trouble gettin' dates?!
tommy		This way, ma'am.
eddie		There was too much press hangin' around there.  I didn't want her face on the news.  So I told him to take her to a quiet area until things settled down.
duffy		Oh.
eddie		It was my decision, not his.
duffy		Well, I'm the Deputy Chief Fire Marshall and every now and then I'd like to be included in decisions.
eddie		Look, after Jordy briefs me, you can do the press conference.  How about that? The case is all yours.
duffy		Oh yeah...?  Alright.
eddie		 Excuse us.
duffy		 Beep me when you're ready for the press conference.
jordy		Will do, Chief.
eddie		Wait.
eddie		Guys...give me a few minutes?
jordy		Look, Eddie, I'm tellin' you - I didn't touch her.
eddie		Well, you shoulda because nobody's gonna believe you didn't...including me.
jordy		I took her there for a shower and that's it.
eddie		Just a shower?
jordy		Yeah, just her in the shower.  Nothing happened.  Look, I'm sure you probably think I'm a fool and I fucked up, but...
eddie		No, I don't think you were a fool, I just think you were stupid about it.  I mean, to say the least, you outta know better.  You don't know her well enough. She's got the potential to fucking hang you even if she suggests that you made a pass at her, it's fuckin' over.  You can deny it all you want, but it will not make one fucking bit of difference. You're dead.
jordy		I told you, you know, I thought I was doing the right thing, you know, I think she's innocent.
eddie		Well, it's not up to you to decide whether she's innocent or not.  Don't you understand, that's why you're a professional.
jordy		But, I mean, didn't you ever go out on a limb for somebody?  I mean, you shoulda heard her there.  Tellin' her whole story...I believed her.
eddie		How you go out on a limb for somebody is by giving her a number of an Immigration lawyer.  Here, here's a number of an Immigration lawyer.  That's how you help her. But you can't get involved in her like that.  You're gonna jeopardize your career, your life and you're gonna jeopardize my case.  And lemme give you another piece of advice.  Maybe you don't watch TV but I'll let you in on a little secret - the whole fuckin' world watches television.  And when you get out there, they know your face.  And the little fame, the little fuckin' itty bitty fame that I get in this city makes it a lot easier for my job.  And I get more done because of it.
jordy		Why'd you help me back there with the Chief?  Why'd you stand up for me like that?
eddie		You know, I don't know.  I like you. You remind me of a puppy I used to have. He pissed on the rug all the time, but I still kept him.
eddie		It's Flemming...anything turn up?  Did they check the hospitals?  Airports? Yeah, I hit him!  I fuckin' hit him!  We should be all over everywhere - with dogs, choppers, everything!  These guys are from fuckin' Czechoslovakia...
emil		So...who's Nicky?
eddie		What do you want?
emil		Your opinion.  You see, they going to make a movie about me, too, Eddie.  And write books.
eddie		 What's your accomplishment.
emil		I kill someone famous.
eddie		Then do it, asshole.
emil		Good - be tough to the end.  Actor who plays you will want to die like hero.
eddie		If you kill me and film it you're putting a noose around your neck.
emil		Turn it off.
oleg		Good idea!
eddie		You really think you'll be able to fool a jury with this bullshit?  How fuckin' stupid are you?
emil		Smarter than Americans.  You're fed cry baby talk shows all day long.  Not only will Americans believe me, they'll cry for me.  So...Detective Eddie Flemming, would you like to say goodbye to your Nicolette? Maybe you can propose to her now?
oleg		Cut!
emil		Bad last moment - I cut that out.
hawkins		Awful...what an awful day.  He was New York City.
tommy		I never got to tell him how much I admired him.
hawkins		I know, son, I know.  We all loved him.
nicolette		You know...you know he was gonna propose to me.  The crime guys found a card he'd written out to me.  And a ring box...these fuckers that killed him - have my ring.  They have my diamond engagement ring...
hawkins		I know.
nicolette		What do you mean you know?  He told you he was gonna propose to me?
hawkins		Well, he...
nicolette		 I want to hear everything he said.
hawkins		I'm trying to tell you.
nicolette		Alright.  Go ahead.
hawkins		That morning.  He was talking to me and Leon about marriage.
nicolette		Oh my G-d.  We were having lunch here. He started making overtures - talking about little shoes next to his in his closet but I got a call to anchor - and I walked out on him.  I walked out on him when he was trying to ask me to marry him!!
maggie		Robert...?
hawkins		What are you doing here?
maggie		 You've got a call.
hawkins		I can't talk to anybody right now, can't you see I'm busy!  I can't talk business.  Hang up.  Have a drink.  Get her a whiskey.
maggie		Trust me, you'll want to take this call.
hawkins		Hello?  Who is this?  How do I know this is you?
emil		Come to 45 Broadway.  Don't bring the Police.  Come alone or you'll be in my next film.
hawkins		 Look asshole.  I've been threatened by better than you.
emil		No.  I'm the best that's ever threatened you.
hawkins		I'll meet you on one condition - I get exclusivity and you surrender to me.
emil		We'll talk about that.  Four o'clock gives you time to go to bank.  Three hundred thousand dollars.
hawkins		What?  It doesn't work that way.
emil		 If you don't want my film - I'll call another show.  And they will show it.
hawkins		Wait a minute.  Wait a minute.
emil		Come alone.  Bring cash.  And we'll talk about surrendering.
korfin		How was it?
jordy		 Not good.
duffy		 Did the D.A. videotape her deposition?
korfin		Yeah.  He finished awhile ago.
duffy		 Alright.  Swing by her apartment.  Let her pick up her clothes and take her straight to Hoover Street.  You got that?
korfin		Yeah.
jordy		Chief - mind if I take her?
duffy		Okay.  But not water sports.
man		Excuse me - Jordan Warsaw?
jordy		Yeah.
man		 Consider yourself served.
korfin		Zwangendaba??? Is suing you, the department and the city of New York for 10 million?  Who is Zwangendaba?
jordy		The mugger.
daphne		Are you alright?
jordy		I still can't believe Eddie's gone.
daphne		I'm sorry.
jordy		What's this?
daphne		Ludwig?  He's gay - are you jealous?
jordy		If I was your boyfriend, I might be.
daphne		If you were my boyfriend, I'd suggest you find another girlfriend that isn't going to jail ten-thousand miles away.
jordy		A good Immigration lawyer could stall the process.  Eddie recommended one.
daphne		No matter what happens...I'm glad I met you.
jordy		I'm glad I met you.
jordy		You better get packed.
daphne		Right.
jordy		Do you have coffee?
daphne		In the kitchen.
jordy		I'll make some for us.
daphne		I'll get my clothes.
jordy		No!  Get back!  GET BACK!!!
daphne		That's not mine!
jordy		Don't!  It'll suck the flames toward us!
daphne		Oh my G-d!  Oh my G-d!
jordy		Calm down.  Get a hold of yourself!  Get down!
daphne		Pouring it out!
oleg		This is great film!  You can see fire right now - Daphne is in fire - Fire Marshal is here.  Everything is so messy.  Everything is so crazy right here!  Look at this fire!  We made it! 90% of people who die in fire die from eating smoke.  So most likely they all die from eating smoke.
jordy		Get back!  Get out of the bathroom! Run!
jordy		It's okay.  I'm a fireman.  I'm going to help you.  Get back!  Now!
garcia		Jordy!  What the hell happened?!
korfin		Are you alright, man?  Lemme see the hand!
jordy		Where's Daphne?  Daphne?
voice		Isn't she a beauty?  She's my fire, look at that loom-up on her!
max		I did this!  I did this!  Take my picture!  I'm Max!  Max Gornick!
jordy		Get outta here!
korfin		What the hell happened?
jordy		They were inside.  They booby trapped her apartment!
duffy		What the hell are you talking about??? They're gonna do what?
tommy		Where is he?!  Where is Hawkins?!
maggie		He's not on the premises!
leon		I want the tape.  Go get it and bring it here this minute.
maggie		Any request for the video must be directed to "Top Story's" attorney - Bruce Cutler.  I'll be happy to give you his number.
leon		Lady, if you put Eddie's murder on TV, I'll get a warrant for your arrest and shove it so far up your ass it'll come outta your mouth!
maggie		I want your shield number!
maggie		 You want the tape?  There it is!
hawkins		What we are about to broadcast is very graphic footage...
emil		America!  Who says you can't be success in America?  I arrived with nothing, knowing nobody - now look - I am a success story!
oleg		You are success story?  I am success story!  Why do you say I and not we?
emil		Oleg, don't be paranoid.  You got a hundred-fifty thousand dollars, didn't you?  I gave you half of what they gave me.  Look - here we are!
oleg		In movie they make of us, who do you think would act me?
emil		The one who got caught in the bathroom.  George Michael.
oleg		I'm serious.
emil		Shut up.  Look!
emil		Bad last moment - I cut it out.
oleg		Be quiet.  Watch.
emil		Die.  Die.
emil		Why did you leave that stuff in about you being the director?
oleg		Because I am the director.  Don't you realize, if it wasn't for my film, for my talent, my idea to do this - no way would we be sitting here right now.
emil		Your idea?  I thought it was my idea.
oleg		I'm serious...this - this is a great American film.  Full of violence and sex.  And I want my credit.
emil		Credit?
oleg		Yes.  Before we hand in the next video - I put titles on it and my credit is going to read - Directed by Oleg Razgul.
emil		Yes.  But there's only one problem - you want credit but the problem is - I don't share credit.
oleg		No, I don't get that!
emil		You think you are a director?  You are a fucking little, small Russian piece of shit.  And I hate you.  I fucking hate you.
cutler		I'm not your lawyer until I see the money.
emil		Here.  I have your money.
cutler		 Emil.  Take it easy.  Stay with me.  Sit down.  What do you need?  What are you looking for?
emil		He has the camera!  He took the movie!
jordy		Don't move!  Don't move!  Get your hands up!  Drop it!
emil		I give up!
cutler		This man is unarmed, officer.  He's surrendered.
jordy		Turn that camera off!
emil		No.  Keep filming...
cutler		 Don't say anything.
emil		Where are we going?
cutler		I'm coming with you.
emil		Yes.  Yes, come with me!
cutler		 I'm invoking rights - this man is represented by counsel.  I'm coming with him.
jordy		Turn that camera off!
leon		I'll take him.
jordy		No way!  He's mine!
leon		 We're takin' him.  Don't argue!
jordy		He's my collar!
leon		Well, he killed my partner!
jordy		He's yours but I take him in!  I'll drive him to the precinct, you can have him but I'm walkin' him in.
leon		Okay, kid, have your 15-minutes.  I'll follow you.  Tommy, you ride with him!
cutler		Don't say a word.  Don't respond to his taunting!  He's represented by counsel.  You want to speak to someone - you speak to me!
tommy		Out of the way, counselor.
cutler		Don't you put your hands on me, Detective.
leon		And you, you'll pay for what you did!
hawkins		 This footage will work in your favor. When the jury sees this - no matter what Cutler tries, they'll convict him.
leon		You outta be ashamed.  Ashamed of yourself.
hawkins		If I didn't put it on somebody else would!  I was his friend!
leon		Don't give me that fucking shit.
murphy		Don't get into it on TV.
leon		 Alright, let's get going!
tommy		What are you doin'?  You're gonna lose everybody!
tommy		Jordy...??? Listen to me.  You can't do this.  This isn't the way to do things.
jordy		Were you a fireman?  That how you knew how to rig the apartment?
emil		My father was.  He gave me many lessons about fire.  Now it's my friend.
jordy		Tommy, take a walk.
tommy		What are you gonna do?
jordy		Don't you get it?  He knew he was gonna get caught!  That's why he videotaped Eddie's murder - he thinks he's gonna get off.
tommy		Don't stoop to his level!
jordy		Take the car.  Get outta here, Tommy.
tommy		Look, you can't shoot him in cold blood.
jordy		 GET OUTTA HERE NOW!!  GET IN THAT CAR AND DRIVE AWAY!!!  DO WHAT I SAY OR I'LL KILL YOU, TOO!!!
emil		You can't kill me.  You're not a cop. Just fireman with a gun.  I bet you never shot anybody in your life.
jordy		You'll be my first.
emil		C'mon.  Pull the trigger.  Do it.  Oh, look, you're sweating.  You don't have the balls.
jordy		Get down on your knees.
emil		The Sheraton!  On Broadway!  Room 210. Go get Oleg.  He'll kill you.
leon		Gimme your gun, Jordy.  We all want him dead but you can't do it this way.
waiter		Do you really need me?
jordy		Keep your mouth shut.  Don't mess this up.
hooker's voice		Who's there?
waiter		 R-room service.
hooker		Come in.
oleg		Look at that.  See that shot!  Seamless. No cuts.  And look.  Look at that transition. That's filmmaking!!  Isn't it great?!
jordy		Don't move!
jordy		STOP!  STOP THAT MAN!
ticket taker		Hey, come back here!
jordy		Where is he?  Where'd he go?
ticket taker		Middle door.
drunk's voice		Kill him!  Kill the bastard!
audience		Shoot him!  SHOOT!
oleg		Look!  Over here!
jordy		Everybody down!  Stay DOWN!
cutler		My client, Mr. Slovak, is a victim. What's happened is not his fault.  Emil was under the influence of his partner. At the trial, you'll see that my client will be vindicated...
cutler		I brought you some letters.  It's really fan mail.  Women mostly.  One wants to buy you clothes, another sent a check. Another wants a check.
emil		You bring the cigarettes?
cutler		Oh, sure.
emil		I was all of these.
cutler		Well, you didn't appreciate the severity of it until recently.  No question about that.
emil		What about Oleg?
cutler		Disappeared.  They're looking everywhere.  Maybe he went back to Czechoslovakia.
emil		No, he is here.  Shit...
cutler		Don't worry about him.  Think about yourself.
emil		What about my movie rights?  Book rights?
cutler		Look, I haven't really focused on that kind of thing.
emil		What's your cut?  How much?
cutler		I would say...half.  Half is fair.
emil		 No.  No way.
cutler		But it's...
emil		Thirty-percent.  No more.  Or I call another lawyer.  This is the biggest case of your life.  Don't try to negotiate.  Thirty percent.  Say yes or no.
cutler		This is not about money, Emil.  I need your trust in me.
emil		What else do you need?
cutler		I need to know about your background.  I need to know about your upbringing.  Why you're here.
emil		 Give me another one, please.
cutler		Tell me about yourself.  What you did as a young boy... what your parents were like.
emil		My father always degraded me.  Killed my self-esteem.  And my mother was blind.
cutler		Your mother was blind?
emil		Yeah, she went blind giving birth to me. She went to fucking black market doctor to induce me.
cutler		Back in the Czech Republic?
emil		Yeah, yeah...bad doctor gave her bad drugs which made her go blind.  And my father blamed me for her blindness...
cutler		Your father blamed you for your mother's blindness?
emil		Yeah, he hated me from day when I was born.  Put it out.  Can you put the cigarette out?
cutler		Your father put cigarettes out on you?
emil		Out on my back when I was a small boy.
cutler		Can I see your back?
emil		I'm abused.  Don't you think?
cutler		I don't think it's abuse, I think it's torture.
duffy		The public doesn't have any idea what we do and now you're going to define our image!  This is going to be our Rodney King!
jordy		What was I supposed to do?  The guy tried to mug me.  I was gonna send a cop back - I just forgot.
duffy		Forgot?  You handcuffed a civilian to a tree?!
jordy		Chief - I know I screwed up - but this guy was no innocent civilian.
duffy		Well this is gonna end your career and probably mine.
jordy		End my career?
duffy		How are you going to fight this?  Maybe if Oleg hadn't gotten away and you'd been on the front page, as a hero, this thing would be easier to fight.  You'd have the good to weight against the bad! It's unfortunate that I have to make decisions based upon your press coverage but there's nothing I can do!  Gimme your shield.
jordy		But Chief?  Over this??
duffy		There's nothing to talk about.  Get a good lawyer.  You're suspended until your trial.
stern		 Look, what don't you understand?  We've got a good relationship with the Czech's and the State Department doesn't want to cause an incident.
jordy		But the D.A. needs her as an eyewitness!
stern		They've got her testimony on videotape. And even if they do take her to court immediately after she'll be extradited. The Czechs want her back.  She shot a cop!  I mean, Christ, man, what if Emil Slovak and Oleg Razgul fled to the Czech Republic?  How would you feel if the Czechs wouldn't give them back to us?!
jordy		We're gonna fight the extradition.
daphne		Forget about me.  You have enough problems of your own.
jordy		...Do you really want me to forget about you?
daphne		I don't want to drag you down with me.
jordy		Daphne, I...
daphne		Shhhh.
mike		Zwangendaba.
nicolette		Goddamn assholes everywhere. Zwangenbobby..Zwangendaba.  I got it. I'll do it.  Shit.  Let's start again.
jordy		Hello?  No comment.
reporter		...and WBAI has learned that Mr. Slovak won't have to worry about how he is going to pay for his defense.  He has received movie offers and been in conversations with numerous publishers concerning the rights to his life story.
taxi driver		I can't believe this guy got off. Unbelievable.
jordy		Whatever's leftover, keep.
hawkins		He said he'd be here.  Pick him up as he comes through the crowd.  Do you hear me?  For Chrissakes don't miss this.
cutler		...my client was suffering from a major illness of schizophrenic nature wherein during times of intense stress, as a result of paranoid and psychotic delusions - there was impairment of his ability to appreciate wrongfullness... This is a victory for the mentally ill!
hawkins		Where the hell is he?  Goddamn it?!
jordy		You think this is funny??  What the hell are you laughing at?
cutler		 Officer, keep this man back, he's assaulted my client on previous occasions.
jordy		This is it?  This bastard kills the best cop this city ever had and we do nothing?
cutler		You may not like it marshal, but that's the law.
jordy		And what about the other victims??  What about their families?  He'll end up in some country club nuthouse while his lawyer sells his rights to the movies and we just stand here and do nothing? We let this scumbag walk?
emil		Be careful.  I can kill you.  I'm insane.
hawkins		I thought you wouldn't show up.  Where is it?  Where is the tape?
oleg		It's all in here.  All in here.
hawkins		Wait a minute, Bruce!  We've got some interesting evidence, something you should look at!
cutler		 Officers, there's your killer, do your duty, arrest him!
emil		Traitor!!
oleg		No.  You are the traitor.  You are murderer.  I am director.  Action!
captain		Drop the gun!  DON'T SHOOT!
emil		I'll kill her!  Back off!  Everyone back away from me!
jordy		Let her go.  Let her fucking go!!
captain		No one shoot!  Lower your weapons!  Do not fire!  No officer will fire his weapon unless I say so!  Let the woman go!
emil		Tell him to put his gun down!
jordy		Let her go!  Let her go!!
emil		If he doesn't lower his gun I'll fucking kill her.
jordy		Let her go.
nicolette		Shoot!  Shoot him!!
emil		Shut up!
captain		No on shoot!  No one shoot!!  No officer will follow.  No officer will shoot!
nicolette		Shoot!  Shoot!  Shoot him!!
emil		Shut up!
nicolette		Don't.  Don't let him surrender.  Shoot him!
jordy		Let her go.  Let her go.
captain		Lower your weapon.  I told you - lower your weapon!
jordy		I'm not a cop.  I'm a fire marshal.
hawkins		He's still alive.
oleg		A film...by Oleg Razgul.
nicolette		Wait a minute.  Where are you going? Learn from Eddie.  Talk to the court of public opinion.  Take the credit, you need it.
jordy		No thanks.
nicolette		Cut.
****Dialogues from script :17_again.txt****

****Dialogues from script :2012.txt****

second draft		February 19th, 2008
satnam		8200 feet. Used to be an old copper mine, Professor, sir.
satnam		Correct, sir. But that is not what worries me...
satnam		We don't know, Professor, sir.
adrian		I still can't believe that Wilson chose him of all people to run the White House.
adrian		Shame he's such a pompous ass.
adrian		 Yes sir... No, sir.
anheuser		Which one is it?
adrian		We were talking about what a great speech you gave tonight. Well done, sir.
anheuser		It's Helmsley, right? I'll remember that.
adrian		 Professor West?
adrian		Sir, the President needs to know this.
anheuser		Helmsley, how long have you been on the job as science advisor?
adrian		Four months this week.
anheuser		I would   say that's enough time to learn that we   have rules here. You'll just have to   wait until the quarterly science   briefing.
adrian		If this is about what I said last night, I am truly sorry, sir.
anheuser		So you didn't like my speech?
adrian		Can you please have a look at this, sir? It's really important.
anheuser		Who wrote this?
adrian		An Indian astrophysicist I graduated with from Harvard and Prof. West, the preeminent geologist in the US.
anheuser		Who else knows about it?
adrian		No one, sir.
anheuser		Let's keep it that way, Helmsley.
russian interpreter		Mr. Makarenko wishes to have his interpreters present.
president wilson		Mr. President, judging from the conversations we've had in the past, I can assure you, your English is absolutely fine, for what I have to say.
lin		I will send you money mother.
colonel		Who can read and write?
saudi prince		You must understand I have a very big family. Mister...
saudi prince		Mister Isaacs, one billion dollars is a lot of money.
manfred picard		Laura, I'm putting a lot of trust in your people.
laura		There are too many crazy people who could hurt her, Manfred. The World Heritage Foundation has done this all over the world.
manfred picard		And she'll be safe now? Tucked away in the Swiss Alps?
laura		Perfectly safe.
jackson		Oh no. Not again.
jackson		They're kids, Kate, going on vacation. It's not a doctor's appointment... it's supposed to be fun. You remember that, right? Fun?
jackson		... I know it's mosquito season at Yellowstone, Kate. I'll pick some up on the way.
neighbor		Merrill, we should move back to Wisconsin.
noah		Jackson, what is this?
jackson		Don't call me Jackson, Noah, I'm your father.
kate		So what, you're a chauffeur now? What happened to the temp work?
jackson		This is better hours for me. Means I can still write.
kate		Of course.
gordon		 Simone, how many times have I told you, we don't do Lipo on Fridays. It's too messy.
kate		Noah needs to read twenty pages from his book each day...
jackson		Still?
kate		Jackson, they've been really looking forward to this you know. Don't let them down.
harry		So this time we'll hit the Japs.
tony		So what?
harry		Well Tony, electronics are cheap there and... you could visit your boy Will.
tony		Afternoon ladies...
harry		Are you even listening to me?
tony		Yes unfortunately I am Harry.
harry		I heard from Audrey you're a grandpa now.
tony		Why don't you keep your nose out of my family. You're cramping my style.
harry		He married a Japanese girl - how is that the end of the world? You should at least go see him.
tony		Why? Do you see your boy?
harry		Not as much as I'd like. DC is a long way. But at least we talk.
tony		What about?
harry		Life, how short it is...
tony		What the hell was that?
laura		Manfred is that you?
manfred picard		I had my suspicions. I should have said something. They are following me.
manfred picard		They may be listening to us too. Laura the Heritage Foundation is a sham.
manfred		The art you collected, it's not in the Alps.
radio host		... After what is going on in La-La- land with all those surface cracks, I told myself: Get your stupid ass to Yellowstone. I don't want to miss all the great fun, when it finally blows...
lilly		What happened to the music?
jackson		Hang on, sweet pea, let daddy listen to this for a moment...
radio host		... There's been government people flying in and out all morning. And trust me, they did not look happy...
laura		You have to see this.
president wilson		It's alright Sally.
cnn anchor		... Mr. Picard had been the director of the French National Museums for 24 years. As fate would have it his assassination took place in the same Paris tunnel where Princess Diana died
laura		I just talked to him, Dad. He told me the world Heritage Foundation is a sham. Is that true?
president wilson		Honey, calm down.
laura		A man was killed! I want the truth Dad. Right now.
jackson		To a very special place, Lil'bee. It's a lake. A place where mommy and daddy fell in love.  Remember the book I gave you?
noah		I don't want to know where you and mom had sex. I'm not ready for that, Jackson.
jackson		I'm your dad, Noah.
jackson		This wasn't here before.
noah		Don't you see the signs?
jackson		It's fine guys.
jackson		It's gone. The whole darn lake is gone. I swear you guys there was a lake here.
jackson		It's okay, Noh'.
adrian		I'll be with you in a second, Professor.
officer		... And then you climbed over a posted fence? Just like that?
noah		I told you.
jackson		Isn't this supposed to be a National Park? There shouldn't be fences. What are you guys doing around here anyway?
jackson		So, where did the lake go?
adrian		That's what we're trying to find out. We think this whole area has become potentially unstable. I would advise you to take your kids and leave, Mr...
jackson		 Yeah, that's me.
adrian		What a coincidence. I'm reading your book, as we speak... first third, around day 300, when the shuttle loses communication with earth and drifts off into space.
jackson		You're one of lucky 422 who bought it.
adrian		Actually I didn't buy it. My father gave it to me.
jackson		Oh, I see.
adrian		Officer, can you return them to the campgrounds, please.  Pleasure to meet you, Mr. Curtis.
lilly		He was very nice.
jackson		Yes he was, Lil'bee.
charlie frost		What did the government guys tell you?
jackson		They think it's not such a good idea to climb over their fences. They feel the area is unstable.
charlie frost		Unstable! Ha-ha! They say its unstable! That's funny...
noah		There are mosquitos in here. Did anybody spray the tent?
jackson		We'll get some of that tomorrow. For tonight just put your head under the blankie.
lilly		Daddy you said you weren't gonna work on your book.
jackson		I'm not Honey, I promise. Are you wearing your pull-ups?
noah		No... Gordon gave it to me for my birthday.
jackson		Noah. Things like a cell phone have to be discussed in the family.
noah		 What family?
jackson		Go to sleep guys.
adrian		... You have to immediately inform the President, Mr Anheuser. The readings look much worse than I expected. 
adrian		We were wrong! By five or six months...
charlie frost		... This is Charlie Frost reporting live from Yellowstone National Park, soon to become the world's largest active volcano.
jackson		Hi. Mind if I join you?
charlie frost		I only got a few minutes.
jackson		I just heard part of your broadcast... Mind me asking a question? What exactly is it... that will start in Hollywood?
charlie frost		 Actually it's gonna be the whole west coast...
jackson		What are you talking about?
charlie frost		The apocalypse, the end of days. The Mayans knew it, the I Ching and the Bible, kind of...
charlie's voice		In the year 2012 a cataclysmic event will unfold. Caused by an alignment of the planets in our solar system that only happens every 640,000 years... Just imagine the earth as an Orange...
charlie frost		... and Albert Einstein endorsed it...
jackson		If they all knew, don't you think somebody would tell us?
charlie frost		They can't. Just think about it. First the stockmarket would crash...
jackson		A seat?
charlie frost		 They're building spaceships, man.
jackson		Oh... I see.
charlie frost		No really... One of my listeners, a geography professor at UTSC, has even figured out where they're building them. He sent me a map.
jackson		Well... Charlie, I think I gotta go. My kids are sleeping.
charlie frost		Get them out of Yellowstone, man. It's gonna get ugly here.
jackson		Night, Charlie.
charlie frost		Sorry for the delay, folks. But even in times like these, a man has got to eat...
gordon		Why don't we make a baby?
kate		Stop it! We're in public.
gordon		Honey, I created them. And now suddenly I can't touch them?
kate		Just because I don't care for your arrogant humor doesn't mean I'm acting strange. He is the father of my kids.
gordon		Maybe biologically. Can I remind you what that guy did? First you gave up med school to have Noah... Then you practically raise him and Lilly by yourself while he sat glued to a laptop writing that junk.
kate		Some of his stuff is actually... He's published Gordon.
gordon		 Yeah, published! You know your mother was right. You've always been drawn to guys with lofty dreams and empty pockets. But not this time right, sweetheart?
kate		Did you see that?
gordon		See what?
jackson		Just stop scratching. You'll get them infected.
cashier		Before or after?
jackson		What?
cashier		I'd get before and after.
lilly		 Look! Mrs. Birnbaum, my teacher is on TV!
noah		That's our supermarket.
jackson		 Kids, we have to pack up and go find mommy.
anheuser		Sir, you have to initiate the boarding process immediately.
president wilson		Is this even possible? What's our information from China?
anheuser		They estimate four of the ships will be ready for launch.
president wilson		Only four?
anheuser		If it's alright with you sir, I'll brief the panel about the new development.
president wilson		I'd rather have Adrian do that. They trust him. I told him to be in on the meeting.
president wilson		Ladies and Gentlemen, we all knew this day would come. But we never imagined it would come this soon.
adrian		I'll make this brief...
german chancellor		How much time do we have, Mr. Helmsley?
adrian		Two, maybe three days if we're lucky.
anheuser		Apologies Prime minster. He's still new to the job.
president wilson		Nevertheless, Mr. Antonioni, we have to make an immediate decision.
boxing announcer		... and tonight's challenger for the heavy weight world championship of the world. Here he is... Mister Zultan Balashin!
yuri		Zultan!
zultan		 Ah, finally, Yuri. I thought I would not see you.
coach		He needs to concentrate now, Mister Karpov.
yuri		You shut up... when I talk to my boy, understand?
coach		Yes, Mr. Karpov.
yuri		Good... That is good.  Zultan my friend. Do not forget. We are fighters. We never go down. We always stay on our feet...
tamara		Yuri bear... where are you going?
jackson		Lilly, we're home sweetie.  Wake up big man.
kate		Oh honey, I'm so glad you're back... And you too, darling.
jackson		We tried calling but -
kate		At least it looks like the Mosquitos ate well.
yuri		Good. That is good. I'm sending the Gulfstream to pick up Alec and Oleg.
tamara		 Tell him to bring Caesar's raincoat, it's in the Range Rover.
alec		Curtis, you are late.
oleg		Careful with our stuff. Don't get it dirty.
preacher		... There will be famines, pestilences and earthquakes, sayeth the Lord.
alec		Curtis, can't you go faster?
jackson		Are you guys blind? I can't run people over.
oleg		Why not? They're idiots anyway.
sasha		Hey Jackson. Took you a while...
alec		Ouch! Be more careful!
oleg		Now you're laughing, Curtis. But we are going on a big ship.  We will live... and you will die.
jackson		Where can I rent a plane?
governor		 ... just this morning my people at Caltech told me that in the last 36 hours we had basically zero earthquake activity in Southern California, which is very rare...
jackson		... Kate, we have to get out of LA! I've rented a plane for us. Get the kids ready! I'll be there in five.
kate		The kids have plans today...
jackson		Are you kidding me!
kate		No I'm not! Noah has music at 2 and Lil' has Karate.
gordon		Not that we'd expect him to remember.
jackson		 California is going down! Pack up the kids!
kate		You're crazy! The Governor just said we're fine now.
jackson		The Governor's a meathead, how would he know anything? Kate listen! You gotta trust me over some politician. Come on.
lilly		Mommy, why are you so angry with Daddy?
laura		Because your daddy is a lunatic, darling.
governor		... it looks to me, like the worst is over.
jackson		We have to leave! Noah, let's go!
kate		I think we're safer here!
jackson		Noah, now! Kate please...
gordon		I think he's right.
jackson		Get in the car!
noah		Holy shit!
jackson		Damn it! Where's the pilot?
kate		Gordon, you know how to fly.
gordon		I... had a couple lessons...
jackson		Did you cover taking off?
gordon		Yeah.
jackson		That's good enough for me.
jackson		I'm coming.
gordon		 But I'm supposed to check all these first...
noah		Guys, behind us!
everybody		Gordon! Damn it! Lift off!
gordon		I can't get it up!
noah		 That was amazing, Gordon!
jackson		Are you okay?
kate		 I'm fine. How did you know this was gonna happen?
jackson		I didn't.  Do we have enough fuel to make it to Yellowstone?
waiter		You got fans Tony...
harry		 I'll be right there.
adrian		You remember when I told you about the dam in China? Well, it's happening much sooner than we anticipated.
harry		Hah... About time someone cleaned up that mess.
adrian		Where are you, dad? What exactly is the course of the `Freedom' right now?...
harry		You know, your mom and I, we had a hell of a great life... and a hell of a great kid too.  And the `Freedom' is a pretty big ship you know... Don't write your old man off, just yet.
adrian		I love you, dad.
harry		Love you too, son.
harry		Hey Herb. Get me a double Jack on the rocks.
tony		After twenty-five years on the wagon?
harry		Why not? Who cares how long we do certain things? How long we drink booze, how long we talk to people... Or how long we don't talk to people.
tony		Woah!... Harry, what's the matter with you? Let's go. We're back on.
harry		Call your kid, you stubborn old ass.  I'm not going back on that stage unless you promise to call him.
waiter		 Tony, the ladies are waiting for you.
harry		Promise me, Tony... please.
tony		Yeah, maybe I should call him...
news anchor		... There is little we know at this point, but the earthquake registered at 10.1 on the Richter scale. The whole of the Western seaboard was hit...
adrian		 Have you seen this?
adrian		Any news from Yellowstone?
jackson		Guys, there's fuel! Fill her up and I'll look for Charlie.
kate		You're sure about this?
jackson		Kate, everything this guy said so far has happened. I'll be right back.
lilly		Daddy wait! I wanna come with you!
kate		Lilly! Come back!
jackson		It's fine! I'll take her.
charlie's voice		... I am standing here at the highest point on what is the rim of this super volcano...
jackson		He's got to be close by, Lil'bee...
lilly		Let's go back, Daddy.
jackson		Listen to me. We have to find Charlie. He's got a secret map, you know, like Jack Sparrow in `Pirates'.
charlie's voice		... The last time this baby blew, was 640,000 years ago...
jackson		Dial Mommy's number, sweetheart.
kate		Where are you, honey!?
jackson		Tell her we'll be back in ten minutes.
lilly		 We're looking for a secret map, mommy.
kate		Let me speak to your daddy, darling.
lilly		Ouch!
charlie's voice		... I tell you guys, any minute now... any minute the fireworks will start...
lilly		He's not in the car. He's on a mountain waiting for fireworks.
jackson		You're the best, darling. Give Daddy the phone...  Kate I am sorry, I can't talk...
jackson		You wait here for me! You watch the ship while Captain Curtis talks to the pirate. Okay?
lilly		 Okay...
charlie frost		 ... I wish you guys at home could see this on TV...
jackson		The spaceships Charlie, where are they?
charlie frost		You can't make it there.
jackson		We have a plane. We can get you out of here too. Let's go Charlie!
charlie frost		You'll never make it out in time. Just stay and enjoy the big bang. That your kid?
jackson		Where is that god damn map!
charlie frost		Easy, easy. Watch the mic... I don't know. Somewhere in my camper.
charlie's voice		... The ash cloud will travel everywhere. 
jackson		We're on our way.
kate		Jackson, things are really looking bad here!
charlie frost		... it's beautiful, kids! Just beautiful!
lilly		 It's following us!
jackson		Just don't look back, Lil'bee!
charlie's voice		Majestic!... Oh yeah!
charlie's voice		Oh baby! It's coming!
charlie's voice		`This is the end, my friend'...
charlie frost		... Folks, always remember, you heard it first from Charlie.
jackson		LILLY! DOWN!
lilly		Mommy!
jackson		Stay down darling.
noah		Give me your hand, Lil'.
gordon		We have to take off!
noah		No!
lilly		Where's daddy?!
gordon		Kate, I'm sorry but if we wait we'll all die!
kate		Gordon! Wait!
lilly		It's daddy!
kate		Jackson! Here!
noah		Faster Dad. You can make it!
gordon		Kate, grab him for god sake. We're almost out of runway.
jackson		Thanks for waiting guys.
kate		So, now that you got your map, where are we going?
jackson		We're gonna need a bigger plane.
adrian		Just a few minutes ago Yellowstone erupted, sir. The ash cloud will reach Washington in roughly 7 hours. Maybe 6. We have strong easterly winds...
anheuser		And the crustal displacement?
adrian		No one knows, sir.
anheuser		Let's get the government airborne and... I mean now.
anheuser		Where is the President, Sally?
sally		He said he wanted to spend a few minutes alone. I think he's over at the chapel.
anheuser		The whole North American continent is about to perish, and Wilson decides to go to church!
adrian		He's praying sir. Which considering the circumstances is not a bad idea.
anheuser		Maybe. But right now I need the leader of the free world off his knees and on Air Force One. Wheels up 1900 hours. Can I leave that with you Helmsley?
sally		I really don't like that man.
adrian		Mr. President? We need to get you out of Washington immediately.
president wilson		Now matter how idealistic you are taking office. You lose your innocence behind that desk.  Laura was right. People have died because of the decisions I made.
adrian		That's not your fault sir.
president wilson		You sound like Anheuser.
adrian		A little.
president wilson		You know what she said to me that night we brought her to the hospital?  `Tommy... I think you should do a lottery. Every one should have a chance to go'. That's what Dorothy said to me. That's what we should have done.
adrian		There would have been chaos, sir.
president wilson		You know what I believe, Adrian. I believe nature should choose for itself, from itself.
adrian		But sir?
president wilson		Go. That's an order Helmsley.
gordon		I told you we should have gone to my parents' in the Rockies.
kate		Gordon's right. Look at this mess.
jackson		You don't understand, it's our only chance.
gordon		This isn't one of your crazy stories now. How the hell are we gonna make it to China?
noah		Gordon, without Jackson, we'd never have made it out of California.
voice		 Attention! The US National Guard has informed us, that an extremely hazardous ash cloud is headed towards the city of Las Vegas.
fire man		Let's move people! Inside the terminal!
adrian		Where's Anheuser?
officer		In the command center, sir.
adrian		The President is not coming. I couldn't convince him to.
anheuser		So, the captain doesn't want to leave his sinking ship?  Well, Mr. Helmsley, we just learned that the Vice President's chopper crashed 80 miles north of Atlanta.
adrian		What about the Speaker of the House?
anheuser		In this chaos... I have no idea!
adrian		But she's Commander In Chief now. Sir, I just think -
anheuser		I don't care what you think, Helmsley.
adrian		He wanted to stay with his people.
laura		We have to go back!
anheuser		There is a protocol for just this situation Ms. Wilson and I'm afraid we'll have to follow it to the letter.
rescue worker		People, stay away from the windows!
jackson		We can't get stuck here.
gordon		 She's a patient, honey.
jackson		 Nice work.
sasha		I found us a plane, an Antonov. They were just about to take off, but the tower didn't let them.
yuri		Can you still fly that thing?
sasha		Sure... But I need a copilot.
lilly		Gordon is a pilot.
jackson		Let's go!
rescue worker		Hey! Stop! You can't go out there! Come back!
noah		Wow, that is a big plane.
yuri		 It's Russian.
sasha		Guys, follow me!
sasha		 You'll find folding seats on each side of the cargo hold...
noah		Wow! Look at those!
yuri		We had VIP tickets for that.
sasha		You check the main bus for the hydraulics. I'll balance the tanks.
gordon		Uh... What?
sasha		Work the radio and keep an eye on the fuel, okay?
rescue worker		Move back, people... down on the floor!
gordon		We have to get going!
sasha		 We're going, we're going.
gordon		We're not gonna make it!
sasha		Shut up! We will!
sasha		GOVNO! . Help me pull!
gordon		Was that the Eiffel Tower?
sasha		Ladies and gentlemen, we are on our way to China.
neng		But Lin is my brother. He is working inside the big tunnels, where the ships are made.
neng		Mother, I got a message from Lin. He wants us to meet him in Cho Ming, at the west gate. He says he can get us on one of the ships he is working on.
neng		The dam is a ship, Mother. The government lied to us. There will be a big flood.
neng		No mother! We must pack up right away.
neng's mother		We took a trip with the Laem Song ferry once. Your father was throwing up the whole way.
alec		Our dad had one on order. We were supposed to get it next year.
oleg		But then he cancelled it again, because of the ships.
noah		If I was rich, I'd get one of those.
oleg		We have one. How many cars does your family have?
noah		My Mom's boyfriend has a Porsche, a
alec		Our parents are divorced too.
noah		Nothing we can do about that.
tamara		How did you meet Dr. Silberman? He's great, isn't he?
kate		I think for the same reasons you did. You know, after breast feeding two kids...
tamara		We are not married. And we probably never will... But he paid for them.
kate		I bet he did.
lilly		What did the man pay for mommy?
kate		Nothing, Lil'bee.
tamara		What's your situation?
kate		Way too complicated...
yuri		They seem to like each other.
jackson		I guess... So tell me Mr. Karpov - how much did you pay?
yuri		One billion euro, per seat.
jackson		That's disgusting.
yuri		You know Curtis, I wasn't always businessman. I am a boxer. Was my only playing when I was a boy, back in Murmansk. My coach...  ... his name also Yuri... He always said: `Someone wants to beat you... he has to kill you first'.
gordon		Let's get this straight, Sasha. I'm not a pilot. I'm a plastic surgeon. I just took some lessons to overcome my fear of flying.
sasha		Why did you give up?
gordon		It didn't work.
sasha		There's 14 on each side. Some of them must still be there.
gordon		Guys, you really oughta take a look at this.
yuri		What is that?
sasha		The State of Hawaii!
yuri		Not good. That is not good.
jackson		How much fuel do we have?
sasha		Not enough. We'll have to make a water landing somewhere in the South China Sea.
gordon		At least we won't need our landing gear.
yuri		What about it?
gordon		We lost it all... in Vegas.
adrian		Can I come in?
laura		I've got nothing to say to you.
adrian		But I do...
laura		 I'm a big girl Adrian. I don't need protection. You used me. You guys had me gallivanting around the world, as part of your little cover-up.
adrian		But you were doing a good job.
laura		Sure, if your name's Da Vinci or Picasso. But if you're some young talent in Podunk, Texas, sorry you're not famous enough. People like you and Anheuser and my father - you think you can play God.
adrian		You know what your father believed. That nature will choose itself from itself.
laura		That's bullshit and you know it. It's the fittest, the richest and the strongest that survive.
adrian		That's not true.
laura		Zero. What's your point?
adrian		It's called `Farewell Atlantis' and it's a fantastic read. It's part of our legacy now.
adrian		What if I tried to sort some of this mess out? I need to know you can forgive me...
laura		I need to know that too, Adrian.
adrian		One more thing. Your father told me you were the most precious thing to him in the whole world... You are to me too.
old lady		She can't find her mother.
president		Why don't you two girls make yourself comfy on that big couch? I'll see what I can do.
president wilson		Sally, can you take care of them. I'll go check with the Red Cross...
old lady		No wonder the First Lady fell for him. I knew Miss Dorothy Jones long before the President, when she was still singing jazz down in Atlanta with Harry Helmsley.
sally		I know, she was amazing.
president wilson		Who can help me with missing persons?
president wilson		Don't worry about it. You're doing a great job son...
communications officer		We lost communication with the White House, sir.
anheuser		That's affirmative, Mr. President. Until communication is restored, I am in command.
neng		 Hold on back there!
jackson		Couldn't sleep huh? Me neither.
kate		Anything?
jackson		Nothing, just static. Not even an emergency signal.
kate		I can't think about what's going on down there.
jackson		I couldn't have left you...
kate		Do you think people change?
jackson		By `people' are we talking about me?
kate		Do you think you've changed since we separated?
jackson		Well I certainly eat a lot more cereal now...
kate		You know, you always had tunnel vision. You could always just block things out and write. You blocked all of us out Jackson.
jackson		Do you love him? Gordon...
kate		I love him enough.
communications officer		... Cho Ming reports the first tremors,
anheuser		Any clue what to expect next, Professor?
adrian		Do we have any news from the Japanese seaboard?
newscaster		... Tokyo seems to have taken the severity of the hit... Unconfirmed reports indicate that the entire island of Japan is below water...
tony		I called... But I never got through.
harry		I'm so sorry.
president wilson		I'm coming home Dorothy...
anheuser		At least some good news.
adrian		We expect enormous tsunamis to reach landfall in every continent. The Cho Ming area will be impacted in approximately six hours.
anheuser		So Helmsley, what you're telling us here is that... the north pole is now somewhere in Wisconsin?
adrian		It's the south pole, sir.
sasha		Engine failure. GOVNO! Two of six are down. We must get ready.
jackson		Let's go wake up the kids.
jackson		What are you talking about? I don't hate Gordon.
noah		But you don't like him either.
jackson		I don't know him that well.
noah		But I know him. He's really nice. You should talk to him more often. You guys would get along really well.
jackson		I'll give it a try, Noah. I promise.
kate		Is it time?
noah		What's wrong?
jackson		Sasha told us, it could get a little bumpy... and wet.
jackson		Your daddy has to tell you something.
sasha		Don't ask me how that happened.
gordon		It's as if the whole earth shifted by 1500 miles...
jackson		No shit.  It's called 'Earth Crust Displacement'
sasha		We lost our last two engines.
yuri		 Get up! Follow me!
tamara		Yuri bear, what are we doing?
yuri		We're taking the Bentley!
sasha		CHTO ZA... Gordon! We're still too fast!
yuri		SHUT UP EVERY ONE!
sasha		Your turn Gordon! Go! Make sure that they make it out of here before I touch down!
gordon		What about you?!
sasha		I'll be fine! I have to land this thing!
jackson		We're waiting for Sasha and Gordon.
noah		Tamara! Open the door!
tamara		Where's Sasha?
gordon		He said he'll be fine and we should get out of here before he touches down.
lilly		Daaadddy!
chinese commander		Welcome to the People's Republic of China.
jackson		Thank you...  Say thank you, kids.
chinese commander		What color are your passes?
tamara		It's a joke... a mistake...  Right Yuri?
yuri		You think I did not know about you and Sasha? May god rest that poor bastard's soul.
gordon		What!... Did that just happen!?
chinese officer		 Mr. Anheuser - you're in Chopper 1. Dr. Wilson the same.
captain michaels		I'm Captain Richard Michaels. I'm the skipper of the American boat sir. After you!
captain michaels		My sincerest condolences Dr. Wilson, for your father...
anheuser		I've been told of damages?
captain michaels		We haven't completed the assessment but it looks like we lost Number 4 when the crust shifted.
yuri		What do mean we can't board Number 4? I want to speak to your supervisor.
soldier		I am the supervisor! Now get in line with all the others while we make arrangements.
yuri		I want your name!
soldier		 Can you read? Now get the hell back with the other green cards, or I'll have you detained.
jackson		Keep thinking warm thoughts sweetheart. You're doing great.
tamara		I should have listened to you, Dr. Silberman. I actually liked the way I looked before that monster talked me into it.
gordon		Did you know he asked for a discount... and he paid in installments?
tamara		Cheap bastard.
gordon		You're better off without him. What he said about you and Sasha, is it true?
tamara		Now that he's gone I think he was worth a hundred times a man like Yuri.
jackson		You guys hear that?
jackson		 Hey! Help! Wait for us!
laura		Captain Michaels? What happens to all those people?
anheuser		Dr. Wilson, there's a protocol for all that. You just stick to your art. We'll handle the rest.
adrian		Satnam?  Where are you?
adrian		What?!
satnam		There's a tidal wave coming from the East! It's huge!
adrian		Satnam, what happened?
satnam		I have to go!
adrian		Do we have the latest satellite images of Napam, India?
science officer		One moment, sir.
anheuser		Helmsley, what's going on here?
adrian		Looks like our model was wrong.
anheuser		What does this mean?
adrian		The flooding will happen earlier. Bobby, can you plug in the new data please?
adrian		This one is at least 1500    meters high!
anheuser		Talk to me Helmsley. What does this mean for us?
adrian		Bobby, plug in the new data and adjust the count down?
anheuser		Get me the other Heads of State.
lin		 Who are they?
neng		We found them by the side of the road, my brother.
lin		You must send them back.
neng		I am a follower of the great Lama Yak La. You know I cannot do that.
jackson		Come with daddy.
lin		Why should I do that?
jackson		For the same reason you sent for your parents.
kate		I have no clue if you understand what I'm saying, but I ask you as a mother, please take my kids with you!
lin		My plan will not work for so many, mother.
kate		Thank you ma'am. Thank you so much.
yuri		They're leaving without us!
soldier		What did I tell you!
yuri		 Look! Idiot! They are leaving you behind too!
lin		 They launch! We run out of time!
computer voice		Countdown to departure. Launch in 17 minutes - 42 seconds.
laura		Where can I find Adrian Helmsley?
science officer		He's in the Technical Command Centre. Follow me.
lin		 Faster, Neng! Help father! Mother, give me your hand.
jackson		Move Lil'bee!
tamara		 Oh my god, that's Yuri!
yuri		Let that stupid dog go!
lin		 Okay. Now!
jackson		Tamara! Come on! Get in!
yuri		 Down there! Oleg, you go first!
oleg		Daddy look, Tamara!
tamara		Caesar darling!
jackson		Tamara! Get in!
tamara		Come to mommy!
lin		I need your help.
laura		What in god's name is happening Adrian?
adrian		Anheuser convinced them all to launch.
adrian		Anheuser! We have to stop this madness.
anheuser		What do you think you're doing?
adrian		I know exactly what I'm doing.  Turn it on!
german chancellor		Can you please turn up the volume, Mr. Hoffmann?
adrian		... But to be human means to care for each other, and civilization means to work together to create a better life. If that's true there is nothing human and nothing civilized about what we're doing here. Ask yourselves ... Can we really stand by and let all those people out there die?
anheuser		We'll miss you Helmsley but somehow we'll get by. Officer switch that off.
adrian		Don't do it!
anheuser		Have you lost your mind? Look at the countdown. We have less than five minutes left... And none of our ships have the resources to feed those people. If you save them today we all starve tomorrow.
adrian		There is a young astrophysicist from India who is the reason we are all here, trying to give mankind a second chance. He's the one who discovered it all, the one who connected the dots. We all owe him our lives.
laura		If my father were here, he would open the gates.
russian president		... China and Japan agree to open the gates.
german chancellor		The United Kingdom, Spain, France and Germany, and I believe I can also speak for the Italian Prime Minister...
adrian		Captain Michaels, you heard them.
lilly		Phew... It stinks in here.
tamara		Sssh...Caesar.
lin		They're opening the gate! It will crush us!
jackson		Noah! Watch out!
kate		No!
noah		Something happened, mom.
jackson		We have to stop it!
jackson		You did it, man. You did it.
captain michaels		What's wrong with the gate?
officer		I don't know. Maybe there's something jamming it, sir.
surveillance officer		Sir, we have a breach in the zoological bay.
adrian		Can you zoom in?
captain michaels		We're loaded. We can close the gates sir.
anheuser		Do it!
yuri		 Pull yourself up!
yuri		Oleg! Catch your brother!
deck officer		Boys, you gotta move.
alec		We wait for our father! He's still down there!
deck officer		There's no one down there.  Come on boys, come...
anheuser		Why is the stern gate not closing?
captain michaels		Something's wrong with the hydraulics, sir.
surveillance officer		They must have come through the hydraulic chamber. There...
laura		That guy is injured. Something must have gone wrong.
anheuser		You're damn right something went wrong! Congratulations Helmsley, you may have just killed us all but as long as your conscience is clean...
adrian		Let's get an emergency crew there right now. I'll meet them at the Hydraulic Chamber.
anheuser		You think you're the main man now, just because your fucking the President's daughter?
adrian		What are you all waiting for?
technical officer		If we can't close the stern gate, then the engines won't start.
adrian		There's no way to override it?
technical officer		No sir, it has to be done manually.
neng		 Almost there, Lin...
surveillance officer		Water has penetrated the stern!
laura		What now?
surveillance officer		The rear of the ship will start sealing itself up one compartment at a time.
adrian		Then how will we get to the hydraulic chamber?
surveillance officer		If we don't hurry, we won't be able to.
kate		Tamara! Take Lilly and Noah.
lilly		Mummy!
tamara		Lilly run!
adrian		Is there any way to talk to them?
jackson		We have to move him higher.  Over there!
naval officer		Moving at 34 knots, sir.
captain michaels		What is our position?
navigation officer		Darjeeling valley, heading south east, sir.
captain michaels		You must be kidding!
kate		We need something to stop the bleeding or he'll die.
noah		Mum, will this do?
adrian		 Mr. Curtis... I'm Adrian Helmsley. We met once before. Your daughter is with me.
kate		Lilly!
lilly		I'm alright Mom!
adrian		You're our only hope.
jackson		I'll go back. I'll try my best.
noah		I'll go with you.
jackson		You stay with Mommy.
anheuser		Captain, what's happening?
captain michaels		What's happening?...  We're heading straight for the north face of Mount Everest, Mr. Anheuser.
kate		Noah!
noah		Mom, we did it!
adrian		Captain Michaels - close the gate!
captain michaels		That's affirmative. Close the gate!
technical officer		Ay, ay, Sir.
captain michaels		Engage starboard stabilizers!
officers		One is engaged... two is engaged... number three is out, sir!
kate		Noah! Where is he?
noah		He was just behind me...
jackson		If you would ever consider to give me another chance... I promise, I'll always be there when you need me.
kate		Whatever you do... I will never let you go again.
adrian		...   and all we can hear is the sound of our   own breathing that reminds us we are   still sharing our memories, hopes and   ideas.
laura		How many copies did you say that sold?
adrian		Less than 500.  It's what you might call a cult classic.
laura		It seems we have very different tastes Mr. Helmsley?
adrian		 Well that's healthy Dr. Wilson. Something we could maybe explore... unless you have other pressing engagements.
laura		Actually my diary's pretty open.
lilly		Daddy? When can we go back home?
jackson		There's nothing we can go back to Lil'bee. Whatever's out there, that's our home now. Don't be scared.
lilly		I'm not Daddy. No more pull-ups.
jackson		 That's my big girl.
lilly		Of course you can. He's your doggie.
adrian		You called for me, sir?
captain michaels		Prof. West has something to show you, Mr. Helmsley.
laura		What's that?
captain michaels		Our European colleagues have already set course for it.
adrian		This is Helmsley.
voice		No, this is Helmsley.
captain michaels		We should have a visual of the `Freedom of the Seas' shortly.
adrian		Dad. We're coming to pick you guys up. How's Tony?
harry helmsley		He's fine, son. We're all fine.
adrian		Pardon me?
anheuser		There was no white kid better than you. I'm terribly sorry I said that.
officer		Standing by Sir.
jackson		I thought you might want this.
noah		Do you think I'll still get a signal ... Dad?
adrian		I finally finished your book Jackson.
kate		Really? You may well be the first person who ever got to the end.
jackson		Excuse me, I believe he's addressing the author. Well, what did you think?
adrian		I'd say... those astronauts of yours would be shitting themselves, if they knew all their relatives are now stuck in the South Pole.
****Dialogues from script :25th_hour.txt****

o		Eat me .
o		student. I can't touch her.
o		V'     Monty walks out of the room, never looking back.
****Dialogues from script :28_days_later.txt****

chief activist		Fucking hell...
female activist		Oh God...
chief activist		 Keep your shit together. If we're going to get them out of here...
finnish activist		I can pop these, no problem.
chief activist		So get to it.
scientist		Security! We have a break-in! Get to sector...
scientist		...nine.
scientist		I know who you are, I know what you think you're doing, but you have to listen to me. You can't release these animals.
chief activist		If you don't want to get hurt, shut your mouth, and don't move a fucking muscle.
scientist		 The chimps are infected!
scientist		 These animals are highly contagious. They've been given an inhibitor.
chief activist		Infected with what?
scientist		Chemically restricted, locked down to a... a single impulse that...
chief activist		Infected with what?
scientist		Rage.
scientist		 In order to cure, you must first understand. Just imagine: to have power over all the things we feel we can't control. Anger, violence...
finnish activist		What the fuck is he talking about?
chief activist		We don't have time for this shit! Get the cages open!
scientist		No!
chief activist		We're going, you sick bastard, and we're taking your torture victims with us.
scientist		NO! You must listen! The animals are contagious! The infection is in their blood and saliva! One bite and...
female activist		They won't bite me.
scientist		STOP! You have no idea!
female activist		Good boy. You don't want to bite me, do you?
scientist		NO!
female activist		 Get it off! Get if off!
female activist		I'm burning! Jesus! Help me!
scientist		We have to kill her!
female activist		I'm burning! I'm burning!
chief activist		What's...
scientist		We have to kill her NOW!
chief activist		What's wrong with them?
scientist		Oh God.
activist		 Terry? Jemma?
activist		Mika? Where are you?
activist		Bloody hell.
jim		Ow...
jim		Hello?
jim		...Hello?
jim		Father?
jim		Father, what are you...
jim		Jesus!
jim		Oh, that, was bad, that was bad... I shouldn't have done that...
jim		Shit.
woman's voice		HERE!
woman's voice		OVER HERE!
jim		 Those people! Who were... who...
mark		This way! Move it!
mark		A man walks into a bar with a giraffe. They each get pissed. The giraffe falls over. The man goes to leave and the barman says, you can't leave that lying there. The man says, it's not a lion. It's a giraffe.
mark		He's completely humorless. You two will get along like a house on fire.
selena		Who are you? You've come from a hospital.
mark		Are you a doctor?
selena		He's not a doctor. He's a patient.
jim		I'm a bicycle courier. I was riding a package from Farringdon to Shaftesbury Avenue. A car cut across me... and then I wake up in hospital, today... I wake up and I'm hallucinating, or...
mark		What's your name?
jim		Jim.
mark		I'm Mark. This is Selena.  Okay, Jim. We've got some bad news.
selena		It began as rioting. And right from the beginning, you knew something bad was going on because the rioters were killing people. And then it wasn't on the TV anymore. It was in the street outside. It was coming through your windows. We all guessed it was a virus. An infection. You didn't need a doctor to tell you that. It was the blood.
jim		Where are your families?
mark		They're dead.
selena		Yours will be dead too.
jim		No... No! I'm going to find them. They live in Greenwich. I can walk.  I'm going to... to go and...
selena		You'll go and come back.
jim		 Yes! I'll go and come back.
mark		Rules of survival. Lesson one - you never go anywhere alone, unless you've got no choice. Lesson two - you only move during daylight, unless you've got no choice. We'll take you tomorrow. Then we'll all go and find your dead parents. Okay?
mark		How's your head? Fucked?
mark		 I know where your head is. You're looking at these windows, these millions of windows, and you're thinking - there's no way this many people are dead. It's just too many windows.
mark		The person who owned this bag. Can't be dead.
mark		A woman -  - and carried protection, just in case.
mark		 Believe me, we won't need them anymore than she will.
mark		 Hey!
jim		 Down there. Westlink Street. Second on the left.
selena		If there's anyone in there who isn't human...
jim		I understand.
selena		Anyone.
jim		I understand.
mark		Okay.
mark		 Wait.
selena		They died peacefully. You should be grateful.
jim		I'm not grateful.
mark		The roads out were all jammed. So we went to Paddington Station. Hoping: maybe we could get to Heathrow, maybe buy our way on a plane. My dad had all this cash, even though cash was already useless, and Mum had her jewellery. But twenty thousand other people had the same idea.  Looking down, you couldn't tell which faces were infected and which weren't. With the blood, the screaming, they all looked the same. And I saw my dad. Not my mum or my sister. But I saw my dad. His face.
mark		Selena's right. You should be grateful.
selena		We don't have time to get back to the shop before dark. We should stay here tonight.
jim		My old room was at the end of the landing. You two take it. I'll sleep down here.
selena		We'll sleep in the same room. It's safer.
jim's dad		Give me a glass of that, would you?
jim		 It's empty.
jim		 Help!
jim		It's Mr. Bridges...
selena		Were you bitten?
jim		He lives four doors down...
jim		That's his daughter...
selena		Were you bitten?
jim		No... No! I wasn't!
selena		Did any of the blood get in your mouth?
jim		No!
selena		Mark?
mark		Wait.
mark		DON'T!
selena		Get that cleaned off.
selena		Do you have any clothes here?
jim		 I... I don't know. I think so.
selena		Then get them. And get dressed. We have to leave, now.
selena		More infected will be coming. They always do.
jim		 How did you know?
jim		 How did you know he was infected?
selena		The blood.
jim		The blood was everywhere. On me, on you, and...
selena		 You need to understand, if someone gets infected, you've got somewhere between ten and twenty seconds to kill them. They might be your brother or your sister or your oldest friend. It makes no difference Just so as you know, if it happens to you, I'll do it in a heartbeat.
jim		How long had you known him?
selena		Five days. Or six. Does it matter?
selena		He was full of plans. Long-distance weapons, so they don't get close. A newsagent's with a metal grill, so you can sleep. Petrol bombs, so the blood doesn't splash.
selena		Got a plan yet, Jim? You want us to find a cure and save the world? Or fall in love and fuck?
selena		Plans are pointless. Staying alive is as good as it gets.
selena		Shhh.
jim		Let's hope we don't have to get out of here in a hurry.
selena		Need a break?
jim		 No. You?
selena		No.
jim		I do need a break, by the way.
selena		What's up?
jim		Nothing.
jim		I've got a headache.
selena		Bad?
jim		Pretty bad.
selena		Why didn't you say something before?
jim		Because I didn't think you'd give a shit.
selena		 You've got no fat on you, and all you've had to eat is sugar. So you're crashing. Unfortunately, there isn't a lot we can do about that...
selena		...except pump you full painkillers, and give you more sugar to eat.
selena		As for the sugar: Lilt or Tango?
jim		 ...Do you have Sprite?
selena		Actually, I did have a can of Sprite, but...
jim		Jesus!
selena		Quiet.
selena		That's an infected.
selena		They're in.
selena		Come on!
jim		 I can't.
man		Down the corridor! Flat 157!
selena		Let us in!
girl		Where's Dad?
man		 It's okay, Hannah. Let them inside.
man		Come in, come in.
man		So... I'm Frank, anyway.
jim		I'm Jim.
selena		Selena.
frank		Jim and Selena. Good to meet you. And this is my daughter, Hannah.  ...Come on, sweetheart. Say hello.
frank		So... so this is great. Just great. It calls for a celebration.
hannah		 We've got Mum's creme de menthe.
frank		Yes, her creme de menthe. Great. Look, sit, please. Get comfortable. Sit tight while I get it.
selena		Shall we?
hannah		Middle cupboard.
hannah		Top cupboard.
jim		This is your place, then.
jim		It's nice.
frank		There! I know it isn't much but... well, cheers!
frank		Normally we keep the windows covered at night, because the light attracts them. But when we saw your petrol station fire, we knew it had to be survivors... So we hooked up the Christmas tree lights. Like a beacon.
selena		We're grateful.
frank		Well, we're grateful you came. I was starting to really worry. Like I say, we haven't seen any sign of anyone normal for a while now.
jim		There aren't any others in the building?
selena		And you haven't seen any people outside?
frank		We haven't left the block for more than two weeks. Stayed right here. Only sensible thing to do. Everyone who went out...
selena		Didn't come back.
frank		And there's two hundred flats here. Most of them have a few cans of food, or cereal, or something.
selena		It's a good set-up.
frank		It isn't bad.
frank		We've got by, haven't we?
jim		Yes. Fine.
frank		Have to empty it each morning. We just chuck it over the balcony... No mod cons here.
jim		It's fine.
frank		...Well, look, it's pretty late. I'm going to turn in. We've got a spare room. Are you and Selena...?
jim		I'll take the living room.
frank		Oh, right. I mean, yes... So, good night then, anyway.
jim		Good night, Frank.
selena		Very spruce.
jim		Very shredded.
selena		Uh-huh.
jim		So what do you make of them?
selena		They're desperate. Probably need us more than we need them.
jim		...I think they're good people.
selena		Good people?
jim		Yeah.
selena		Well, that's nice. But you should be more concerned about whether they're going to slow you down.
jim		Right. Because if they slowed you down...
selena		I'd leave them behind.
jim		In a heartbeat.
selena		Yeah.
jim		I wouldn't.
selena		Then you're going to wind up getting yourself killed.
selena		I'm going to get some sleep.
jim		Selena - you think I don't get it. But I do get it. And I know I'd be dead already if I hadn't met you.
selena		Sure.
jim		No, look - I mean thank you.
selena		And I mean sure. Good night, Jim.
jim		Good night.
frank		Morning, Jim.
jim		Morning.
frank		Listen, have you got a minute?
frank		We lost water pressure three weeks ago. For a while, I thought we'd be okay with the water in the other flats. The cistern and tanks. But it vanishes so quick you wouldn't believe. You drink it, it evaporates, turns stagnant...
jim		 They're all empty...
frank		It hasn't rained in over a week.
frank		You can set up a plastic sheet to catch dew and condensation. Trap it somehow. I saw it on TV once and I've been experimenting, but I can't get it to work, and... you don't happen to...
frank		You'd never think it. Needing rain so badly... Not in fucking England...  Jim, we don't have enough water for and Selena.
jim		Right.
frank		No. It's not what you think.
selena		There haven't been any broadcasts for weeks.
frank		 Just listen.
selena		 Soldiers.
frank		There's more. Listen.
frank		Then it just repeats.
jim		It's a recording?
frank		It's a recording. But this is where it's telling us to go.
jim		The North...
frank		The way things are, we might need two or three days to get up there.
selena		We.
frank		Sound carries in this flat. Jerry- built, I suppose, and... me and Hannah do need you more than you need us.
selena		I wasn't -
frank		It's okay. Look, it's the truth. I can't leave the block if it's just the two of us.
selena		If it's a recording, for all we know the soldiers who made it are dead.
frank		Yes. It's possible.
selena		And that stuff about the answer to infection. There is no answer to infection. It's already done pretty much all the damage it can.
jim		Maybe they've got a cure.
selena		Maybe they've got nothing at all.
frank		The only way to find out is to reach them.
selena		We could die trying.
hannah		Or die here.
hannah		And anyway, it isn't true what Dad said. You need us just the same as we need you. We need each other. And we'll never be safe in the cities, and soldiers could keep us safe.
hannah		So we have to try and get there.
jim		Get there how?
frank		Just so as you know. I don't take cheques or credit cards.
frank		What do you think?
selena		It's the most direct route to the other side of the river.
jim		Then we should go the indirect route. The one in broad daylight. That isn't underground.
frank		Let's just get it done.
jim		I knew this was a shit idea. You know why? Because it was really obviously a shit idea. Driving into a dark tunnel, full of smashed cars and broken glass is really fucking obviously a shit idea.
jim		Oh no.
frank		HOLD ON!
frank		Fuck.
jim		The world's worst place to get a flat.
frank		Agreed. I think we'd better do this quick.
frank		You know what to do.
jim		...You heard that?
frank		 Heard what?
jim		Holy shit.
frank		 What the fuck?
selena		They're running from the infected.
frank		Hannah, get out, get out!  Just lift it! LIFT IT!
selena		 Come on!
hannah		Almost there!
frank		 Go! Go!
jim		 Fuck you!
frank		Honey, you're a cab driver's daughter.
selena		Whoa! Stop the cab! Stop the cab!
selena		Un. Believable.
jim		You're getting out?
selena		This place hasn't been looted. It's a gold mine.
hannah		But we don't know what's in there.
selena		Food and drink is what's in there. And we need it.
jim		Wait!
selena		I've been living off Mars Bars and Coke for two weeks. I need some tinned fruit.
selena		Let's shop.
selena		I'll have you, you, you, you...
selena		Don't take anything we need to cook.
jim		It's okay. I think you can eat this stuff raw.
frank		Mmm. Irradiated.
selena		Ugh. If I never see chocolate again, it'll be too soon.
selena		Not counting Terry's Chocolate Orange, of course.
hannah		 Or Yorkies.
selena		Or Yorkies, obviously.
frank		Put that back. We can't just take any crap.
jim		It isn't any crap. It's whisky. It might be good to have.
frank		Who's arguing about whisky? I'm saying, don't get a cheap blend.
frank		Single malt. Eighteen-year-old. Dark, full flavor.
frank		Warm, but not aggressive. Peaty after taste.
selena		We could have a problem here.
jim		Jesus Christ. We're never going to be able to get out of London.
frank		Don't you worry about that. I've sat twenty years in this seat. I've got my routes.
frank		Okay. We either do this now, or we're walking.
frank		If anything goes wrong, you just drive. You put your foot down. And go as far as you can.
frank		You hear me, Hannah?
hannah		Yes, Dad.
selena		Stay close, Jim.
jim		...What?
selena		You heard.
selena		Where are you going?
selena		We've got enough food.
jim		We don't have any cheeseburgers.  "Stay close." It's like going on holiday with your fucking aunt.
selena		Find anything.
selena		Find anything, Jim?
jim		No.
frank		Okay. We're done.
hannah		 I am a cab driver's daughter.
frank		You're Ayrton Senna's bloody daughter.
jim		Who's unbelievably hungry?
all		Me.
jim		Let's have a picnic.
selena		Oh my God, yes. I can taste the vitamin C. I can feel it in my blood.
jim		 These are great. They're like huge biscuits.
hannah		It's true. They are like biscuits.
jim		 An de phraisins ar phrill moipht.
hannah		 What did you say?
jim		 I said, the raisins are still moist.
frank		Hey.
frank		Look over there.
hannah		Do you think they're infected?
frank		No. I think they're doing just fine.
jim		You know what I was thinking?
selena		You were thinking that you'll never hear another piece of original music ever again. You'll never read a book that isn't already written. Or see a film that isn't already shot.
jim		That's what you were thinking.
selena		No... I was thinking I was wrong.
jim		About what?
selena		All the death, all the shit - it doesn't really mean anything for Frank and Hannah. Because she's got her dad, and he's got his daughter, so... it's okay.
selena		 I was wrong when I told you that staying alive is as good as it gets.
jim		 That's what I was thinking.
selena		...Was it?
jim		Uh-huh. You stole my thought.
selena		 Sorry.
jim		 Ah, keep it.
frank		 It's getting late. We should stay here the night.
hannah		Can't sleep.
jim		Nor can I. It doesn't feel safe, outdoors like this.
frank		I think we're safe enough.
hannah		...Selena didn't seem to have any trouble.
jim		I know. I noticed that too.  Selena...Selena!
selena		 What... what is it...
jim		How did you manage to get to sleep?
frank		Bloody hell. You must have needed a hell of a prescription for that lot.
selena		 I didn't need a prescription. I'm a qualified chemist.
jim		 Two each?
frank		Not for me, thanks.
jim		 What about...?
hannah		Can I, Dad?
frank		 I don't know, honey.
hannah		Da-ad, plee-ease. I can't sleep.
frank		All right, all right. Give her half of one.
the driver		You stupid cunt!
jim		Fuck you!
frank		 Hey.
jim		 What...
frank		Shh. You're having a bad dream, that's all.
jim		 Okay, Dad.
jim		Here you go, Frank. This is how you catch dew. I'm covered in the fucking stuff.
frank		 If we make good time, we'll be there before midday.
jim		Bloody hell...
frank		It must be Manchester.
jim		But, the whole of Manchester. The whole city...
selena		No fire crews to put it out.
jim		It can't be...
hannah		Is it snow?
frank		 It's ash.
frank		Okay, everyone. I think this is it.
jim		Try the horn.
selena		Don't. We might attract the wrong kind of attention.
frank		What do you think?
jim		It looks deserted.
selena		Or overrun.
frank		Let's check it out.
hannah		I don't understand. Did they leave?
jim		They didn't all leave.
selena		I don't like this. I think we should go.
frank		 The vehicles. We should check the vehicles first. There has to be something...
frank		Nothing. Nothing here. I can't believe it.
selena		Frank.
frank		"We should go."
selena		Yes.
frank		 Go fucking where? What the fuck are we supposed to do? How is this going to fucking end? It's never going to -
frank		 GET OUT OF IT!
hannah		Dad... are you okay?
frank		I... I'm fine, honey. I'm sorry. I just lost my temper. I...
hannah		...What?
frank		Hannah...
frank		 Get away from me.
hannah		...Dad?
frank		Get away from me!  Get her away from me!
hannah		 Why? What's...
frank		GET AWAY FROM ME!
selena		Jim...  Jim, he's infected!
hannah		No! No!
selena		 Jim!
hannah		Dad!
selena		Jim!
selena		KILL HIM!
hannah		...Dad?
clifton		STAY AWAY FROM HIM!
farrell		Get away from the man! NOW!
selena		 Jesus.
henry		I'm Major Henry West. Welcome. We've got beds with clean sheets and a boiler that produces hot water. So you can all have a shower. You look like you need one.
henry		You heard our broadcast.
jim		Yes.
henry		We must be a disappointment. You were hoping for a full brigade. An army base, with helicopters and field hospitals.
jim		We were hoping for...
henry		The answer to infection. Well, as I said, it's here. Though it may not be quite what you imagined.
jim		I didn't know what to imagine, so... We just feel lucky to have found you.
henry		You were lucky. The fire drove hundreds of infected out of Manchester. The surrounding area is teeming with them.
henry		But there's no need for you to worry. We're well protected here.
henry		Three-sixty visibility. Flat terrain all around the house... Floodlights, which we've rigged up to a generator. Don't like to waste the fuel, but when we want to, we can turn night into day.
henry		High perimeter wall, which helps, and we've been lacing the grounds with trip wires and land mines.
henry		You wouldn't want to go mowing the lawn, but if they get in, we hear them.
henry		Secondary to protection, our real job is to rebuild. Start again. Down here is the wood-fired boiler that provides us with hot water. Our first step to civilization.
henry		And here, the kitchen.
henry		What are you cooking, Jones?
jones		It's a surprise, sir!
henry		And finally...
henry		...meet Mailer.
henry		Mailer, Jim. Jim, Mailer. Got infected three days ago. Mitchell managed to knock him out cold. Got a chain around his neck.
jim		You're keeping him alive?
henry		The idea was to learn something about infection. Have him teach me.
jim		And has he?
henry		In a way.  He's teaching me he'll never bake bread. Plant crops, raise livestock. He's telling me he's futureless. And eventually he'll tell me how long the infected take to starve to death.
henry		Dinner's at seven. Don't forget to tell the girls.
jim		...So how is she?
selena		She's lost her dad. That's how she is.  It's all fucked, Jim.
jim		Hey, don't...do that. Look, Hannah... Hannah's what Frank said she was. Tough. Strong. And just like me, just like you, she will cope...
selena		Shut up, Jim. Just shut up. I don't want her to fucking cope. I want her to be okay. And when Hannah had her dad, it was all okay. Remember? And when it was okay for them, it was okay for us. And now it's all fucked.
henry		So, what have we here? Tinned ham, tinned peas, and omelette. You've prepared a feast, Jones.
jones		Honor of our guests, sir.
henry		Absolutely. I was going to suggest a toast, but this omelette will do just as well.  To new friends.
henry		Jones, did you notice while cooking that these eggs are off?
jones		I thought the salt might cover the taste, sir.
henry		 Get rid of it.
henry		I don't suppose you can cook, can you? I can't tell you how badly we need someone who shows a little flair in the kitchen.
davis		That's a fucking disappointment. When I saw those eggs, I thought it was Christmas.
bell		We'll have eggs again. Once everything's back to normal.
mitchell		Listen to him! He's still waiting for Marks and Spencer's to reopen.
farrell		I think Bell's got a point. If you look at the whole life of the planet, man has only been around for a few blinks of an eye. So if the infection wipes us all out, that is a return to normality.
farrell		Is that what you meant, Bell?
bell		Uh...yeah.
henry		 Remind me, Farrell, why exactly did you join the army in the first place.
henry		This is what I've seen in the four weeks since infection. People killing people. Which is much what I saw in the four weeks before infection, and the four weeks before that, and before that, as far back as I care to remember... People killing people. Which to my mind puts us in a state of normality right now.
selena		 You're not eating.
hannah		I don't want to eat.
henry		You must eat, Hannah.
hannah		I don't want to eat. I want to bury my dad. He's one of the people you're talking about.
farrell		Stand to!
mitchell		Go, go, go!
farrell		Jones! Cover right!
smith		Three o'clock! Three o'clock!
mitchell		 That was mad! Did you see that! That was fucking mad!
farrell		 Clear!
jones		Clear.
mitchell		 Fuck me, I never saw that before. Keeled over and - bam! Gone, like fucking magic.
smith		I drew a lovely bead. One shot. Right between its eyes.
mitchell		It was all hanging in the air, and all these bits coming down, and...
mitchell		Hello.
mitchell		I'll tell you what: you don't need this penknife any more, sweetie. I'm here to protect you now.  But listen, if you want to hold a huge chopper...
mitchell		Whoa! Feisty!
selena		Fuck you!
mitchell		You bet. How about right now?
mitchell		Yeah! A little rough stuff!
farrell		MITCHELL!
jim		 Cut it out!
mitchell		 Easy, tiger. You don't want to go picking a fight with me.
mitchell		 Ahh, you cunt. Cunt.
henry		Corporal, first point of order after an attack.
mitchell		Re-secure the perimeter, sir.
henry		Then get to it. Jones, Bedford, go with him.  Sergeant.
farrell		 Sir.
henry		Clear the bodies off the lawn. The rest of you go with him.
henry		My apologies.
henry		Drink?
jim		Look. We're grateful. Very grateful for your protection, and just to have found other people. But if we're going to stay here with you, you're going to have to stop your men from -
henry		Who have you killed?
jim		 I haven't killed anyone.
henry		Since it began, who have you killed? You wouldn't be alive now if you hadn't killed somebody.
jim		A boy. I killed a boy.
henry		A child?
jim		Yes.
henry		But you had to. Otherwise he'd have killed you. Survival. I understand.  I promised them women.
jim		What?
henry		Eight days ago I found Jones with his gun in this mouth. He said he was going to kill himself because there was no future. What could I say to him? We kill all the infected or wait until they starve to death. And then what? What do nine men do except wait to die themselves?  I moved us from the blockade, I set the radio broadcasting, and I promised them women. Because women mean children.
henry		And children mean a future.
jim		Get up. Get up!
selena		Wha...
jim		We've got to get out of here!
selena		But we...
jim		 We're leaving. Now! NOW!
farrell		You can't do this! You can't do this! Get back! I'll fucking slot you! I'll slot you, I fucking swear it!
henry		I want to give you a chance. You can be with us, or not.
henry		Okay, Jim. Okay.
henry		 Him too.
farrell's voice		He's insane.
farrell		You know what they're doing, a few hundred miles from here? Across the channel, across the Atlantic, they're eating dinner. They're wondering what to watch on TV tonight. They're sleeping next to their wives.
farrell		But we're here, chained to a fucking radiator because the OC has gone insane. Starting the world again when the rest of the world hasn't even fucking stopped. Think about it! How could infection cross the oceans? How could it cross the mountains and the rivers? They stopped it. And right now TVs are playing and planes are flying in the sky and the world is continuing as fucking normal. Think. Actually think about it. What would you do with a diseased little island?
farrell		They quarantined us.
farrell		 He's insane.
jim		... Quarantine?
farrell		Come on then, you fucking pansies. Do me first.
farrell		So you're going to stick me, Mitchell? Is that it?  Is that how you're going to let your sergeant go out, Jones?
jones		No, Mitch. Do it with the gun.
farrell		You're going to let him stick me, are you? Like a fucking dog?
jones		Mitch, come on. Just shoot him.
mitchell		Why?
jones		Because it's quick.
mitchell		So?
jones		I'll shoot him, then.
mitchell		You fucking won't.  Any last words?
mitchell		I'm going to enjoy this.
mitchell		You stupid cunt! What are you doing?
jones		 How did he...
jones		There!
jones		Oh no. We're fucked, we're fucked.
mitchell		No problem. He's outside. No gun. No vehicle. He's a dead man.
selena		You can't do this to her! She's only fourteen!
selena		You need to give me a moment with Hannah. Alone.
clifton		The OC. He... he wants you to...
selena		He wants us to dress up nice.
selena		But if you want us to change, you'll have to get out of the room.
selena		 It's just fucking polite.
clifton		 Okay. Clear out.
selena		Eat them.
selena		 Eat them, Hannah!
hannah		Are you killing me?
selena		No. I'm making you not care.
clifton		Hey! What the fuck are you doing?
selena		Jim.
bedford		He's at the blockade!
jones		He went over the wall! We thought he'd be dead sir!
henry		Shut up! Davis - you're coming with me!
henry		Okay. Let's see if we can sidestep the cat-and-mouse bullshit.
davis		Fuck.
henry		 Jim?
henry		Davis?
henry		Fine! Fine, you little bastard! Fucking die out here!
henry		Jim.
jones		What was that? Was that a claymore?
mitchell		It was lightning.
jones		But I heard something.
mitchell		I'll go and hit the floods. Take a butcher's. Girls, keep an eye on him, would you?
hannah		Those pills. I think they're having an effect. I can feel them, and... I don't feel sleepy, but...
hannah		 They've been a long time.
hannah		What are you going to do if they don't come back?
hannah		Will you be the boss if Henry is dead? Is that the way if works?
jones		Shut up.
hannah		I don't think they are coming back. I think they've been killed.
jones		I told you to shut up!
selena		 Hannah...
hannah		 They're dead.
hannah		You're going to be next.
jones		Shit!
clifton		Help! Shoot him! Shoot him!
selena		Hannah! Hannah! We have to get out of here!
selena		Oh Jesus, Jesus, Hannah, stay with it, stay with it.
hannah		 Don't worry. I feel fine. Really.
mitchell		What the fuck's going on? What's all the shouti...
mitchell		 Don't just fucking stand there! Get after them!
bedford		What the fuck are you going to do now, eh?
mitchell		 Up! Up!
bell		Mitchell? What's going on?
mitchell		Stay here and defend these stairs with your fucking life!
selena		Hannah!
jim		Hannah! Selena!
bell		 I don't have any bullets! I don't have any fucking bullets!
bell		 Don't leave me!
selena		Hannah!
mitchell		Shut your fucking mouth! You want to get us killed?
mitchell		...Shit.
mitchell		In here! IN HERE!
mitchell		It's me and you, now. And I'm going to get you out of here, and then we're going to find some nice little fucking place, with a pretty little fucking garden, and...
jim		That was longer than a heartbeat.
selena		...Jim?
selena		I thought...I thought you were...
jim		Listen to me. I've got to tell you - I've got to tell you. The world isn't fucked. It's going to be okay. We've got a chance, if we can get to...
jim		Ow!
selena		Hannah! Stop! It's okay!
selena		He's not infected!
hannah		I thought he was biting you.
jim		 Are you stoned?
selena		It's a long story.
selena		We have to get out of here.
henry		You killed all my boys.
selena		Jim!
henry		What...Hannah! Hannah?
selena		We're going to crash!
selena		We're going to crash!
jim		Just fucking do it!
jim		Jesus. Not the curtains too.
jim		You looked all right in this, you know.
hell		But tiny figures are forming a new letter. An O:
hello		Then, in the background, the sound of the jet, the rush of noise.
hannah		There! THERE!
jim		Do you think he saw us this time?
****Dialogues from script :30_minutes_or_less.txt****

will		Gimme a break. You guys live two towns away. It's pretty much fucking impossible to get here in 30 minutes.
will		This is gonna come out of my paycheck. You sure you don't want to take the moral high ground?
will		Ok. You guys are pretty smart. You figured out a way to beat the system.  Got the house to yourselves?
will		Not bad. Any jailbait in there? Little pizza and a rainbow party?
will		Seriously? Well, two hustlers like yourselves gotta have the place stocked with beer and whippits and shit, right? Just call the girls up and let them know the party's on.
will		I really shouldn't do this...but you seem like a couple of good dudes. I'll tell you what, you give me the money that your mom left you for the pizzas, and I'll grab you some beers. 
will		I'll see you in like 20 minutes.
will		You boys like Budweiser, right?
will		Yo, Chris. Let me cash the fuck out.
christopher		You have a pretty good shift?
will		For sure. I mean, the part where I had to drop off all those pizzas kinda sucked, but the rest was cool.
christopher		Oh, yeah? 'Cause, I got some kids calling in saying you ripped them off. Promised to buy them beer or something.
will		I actually did buy the beer, but it would have been illegal to give it to them, right? So I'm gonna do the responsible thing and drink it myself.
christopher		That's real funny. But I'm trying to run a business here.
will		What kind of business promises to deliver anywhere in 30 minutes? It's ridiculous.
christopher		I don't wanna hear another one of your bullshit excuses. You're fired.
will		Come on. If I didn't need this job, I wouldn't be doing this shitty job.
will		Fuck! Whatever!
christopher		You know, you were an okay driver half the time. And you're not a Puerto Rican. Which means something to me.
will		That's poignant.
christopher		I guess I could rehire you, on a provisional basis. Of course, this would be at the slightly reduced "new company rate."
will		Are you fucking serious?
christopher		I don't know. Is there anyone else left in town for you to work for?
chet		By the way, she said she had a friend. Maybe we can go on our first double date since you tried to talk Jackie Fortunato and her cousin into having a four-way with us.
will		I misread their body language. It happens.
will		Come on. Let's go inside, drink your beer and watch shit get crazy.  Old favorites. You choose. Lethal Weapon, Lethal Weapon 2...was gonna get the third Lethal Weapon, but decided on a porn. So it's really between the first two.
chet		I choose sleep. I gotta teach a class at eight.
will		You're a sub. Just call in sick. Like the real teacher did.
chet		Come on, man, you know I got promoted to full-time last month. You bought me a laser pointer.
will		Yeah, I know. I guess I'm just having a hard time accepting you as "the man." You know, flunking kids, giving out spite detentions to girls you wanna fuck, laser pointing at shit.
chet		I also get healthcare and my summers off. It's not perfect, but it's a career.
will		I guess that's just the difference between you and me.
will		I'm like Riggs. Cruising the streets. No rules, no attachments. Every other day some asshole is trying to take my badge. You're fucking Murtaugh. Always worried about your pension. Well, guess what, it gets old after the first movie.
chet		I just got head. I'm totally Riggs. Will shakes his head, turns and walks off. INT. STUDIO APARTMENT - DAY Will wakes up, legs dangling over the edge of a tiny couch. His TV is still on, displaying the menu screen from a porn. Will looks down at his coffee table. Clears some magazines to reveal a file folder. Flips the cover - It's full of college applications, drafts of admissions essays, a junior college transcript. Will thumbs through one of the glossy applications. The kids look young. Very young. Will glances over at a picture on his wall: he and Chet at high school graduation, looking just as young. They have their arms around a pretty girl squeezed between them. Will and the girl look very high and very happy. Will shuts the folder, slides it back under the coffee table debris. He looks over at a clock: it is already 2:00 PM. WILL Fuck. INT. MUSTANG - DAY Will jumps in and starts the engine. As he tucks his "Giorgio's" cap onto his head, he catches his reflection in the rear-view mirror.
will		You asshole. You titanic asshole. Come on down and get your prize.
dwayne		Fruit motherfuckin' salad!
jay		This one's gonna blow even bigger.
dwayne		Boy, if you weren't such a skinny little bitch you coulda been in the military or something.
jay		Whatever. I don't need the military. I taught myself how to do this shit.
dwayne		I hear that. I taught myself how to eat pussy. And cut my own hair.
dwayne		This one's all me.  Fuck that, sir. I don't negotiate with terrorists!
dwayne		Wanna make sure I get enough calories.
jay		I thought you wanted to get diesel for the summer. Bang that towel girl at the community pool.
dwayne		It's obvious you don't know shit-all about physical fitness. You gotta bulk up first, then you slim down. I'm clearly in the bulk up phase. I told you to watch Pumping Iron like a month ago. If you'd listened to me, maybe you'd know what the fuck I'm talking about.  Grab some RC Cola.
jay		Shit, man! It's so real!
dwayne		Check it out. I ain't afraid of Jason. I'm fucking him.  You like that, Jason!? In the mask!
jay		Afternoon, Major.
dwayne		Dad, we're watching a flick. We got 45 minutes and a potential 3D sex scene left. You're sorta coming in at the worst possible moment.
major		I bought that TV set so I could watch my programs, not so you and your friend could louse up my couch.
dwayne		You gotta learn how to share the common space.
major		The only thing common in this house is you. You remind me of your damn mother. Fat, dumb, and in my way.
dwayne		Let's get outta here. This movie sucks anyway.
major		I paid for the damn cold cuts, too. Maybe if you had a job, or a fucking prospect, or a clue how to find any of the above, I'd let you eat 'em.
dwayne		 You know, you can be a real sonofabitch, dad.
major		That's what it takes, boy. In the Corps, men like you wore dresses to keep us entertained.
dwayne		That's pretty fucking disturbing!
dwayne		Fuck The Major!
dwayne		- and he thinks he knows me. He don't know shit. I got ideas he could never dream of. I got plans bigger than his fucking house.  He didn't even raise me. My mother did. That was a good woman.
juicy		Oh yeah? What happened to her?
dwayne		She passed on.
juicy		I hope you're not one of those guys that comes here looking to get mothered.
dwayne		I wouldn't mind nursing on them titties, mamacita.
juicy		Sure. Whatever you say. Maybe just keep quiet for a while, forget about your old man and let me do my thing.
dwayne		I wish I could forget about that asshole for good. I'm just waiting around for him to drop dead. Don't wanna mess with my inheritance.
juicy		What kinda inheritance?
dwayne		When my dad got outta the service, he started buying lotto tickets. He'd play his dog tag numbers. In '91, the fucker won five million bucks. INSERT PHOTO: The Major holding a giant cardboard check. DWAYNE He had some health problems a few years back, and since then he's been burning through the money like an NBA draft pick. Probably only got a million or two left. But it's mine as soon as he kicks. Behind inch-long fake eyelashes, Juicy's shrewd eyes narrow, mind working. She straddles Dwayne, tightly. JUICY You know, with a million bucks, you could have anything. Be like a king.  King Dwayne. DWAYNE That's right. And maybe I'll make you my queen. Let you polish my royal scepter. JUICY Practice makes perfect. Juicy pantomimes a long, slow chicken head. Dwayne is blissed out. She smiles at him, sticky sweet. JUICY Let me ask you a question...do you really hate your daddy? DWAYNE Hate him like the Steelers. JUICY Then maybe I can help you get that money now. Before he spends another penny.
juicy		I know a guy in Baltimore. He could help you out. Probably do it for...  ...100Gs.
dwayne		Do what?
juicy		Kill your mean old dad.
juicy		So, what do you think...you ready for your crown?
will		Rio?
kate		That's the plan. Five days, six nights. Culture. Beaches. Acceptable probability of kidnapping. I leave in the morning.
kate		This morning I loaded up an African Safari and a cruise to Alaska.
will		Oh, the places you'll go.
kate		Fuck Expedia. Travel Advisor. Making it seem so easy.
will		It is. Just do it. Get away for a while.
kate		Even if I could afford that...they fired two other paralegals last week. Now's not the time to be putting in for vacation days.
will		Ok. Done. I've got my dose of the actual working world. Can we eat?
kate		How do you keep sneaking up here past the security guard?
will		He's there like half the time. The other half I smile at him. I'm relatively certain he's a homosexual.
kate		Interesting theory...
kate		Maybe I should set him up with Tom Small. He came out to me today on Facebook.
will		That kid beat the hell out of me and Chet in grammar school. Wow.
kate		Tell me about it. He fingered me at junior prom while they were playing "No Scrubs."
will		 Really? What a fucking scrub.
kate		So, I've got some news...
will		I thought the Tom Small stuff was enough of a headline, but go ahead.
kate		I'm getting back together with Mark.
will		But you...you broke up with him...ended the relationship. Finality was had.
kate		Yeah, but we were talking and -
will		Forget it. I don't want to know.
kate		You sound like Chet.
will		Woah, don't compare me to your brother.
kate		Well, neither one of you seems to care that I don't have a life. Mark's not perfect...but a relationship is better than working late every Friday because I have nowhere else to be.
will		Sure. I get it. Here we are. Friday night. Nowhere to be.
kate		You know what I mean.
jay		I don't wanna stick my nose into a family matter...but killing your old man? That's pretty messed up...I mean, unless you think it isn't.
dwayne		What we have here is a classic "lesser of two evils" debate. You got one evil: me shaving a few years off The Major's shitty life. Then you got the other evil: The Major ruining my entire awesome life by blowing through my inheritance. Maybe I'm biased, but mine sure as shit seems like the lesser.
jay		I guess I...sorta see where you're coming from. And you have been waiting around forever for that money. You deserve it, Dwayne.
dwayne		You know, there's a reason I sleep 'til noon everyday. And it ain't 'cause I'm lazy. It's on account of me having so many goddamn dreams. Big ones. And once that money's mine, they're all gonna come true.
dwayne		Like I had this one dream last night. I was cruising through town in a Lamborghini Diablo. The wind was blowing through my hair, ruffling my open shirt. There was a hot little piece of ass sitting next to me. And in the back seat, Jay...was you. Strapped. Wearing a pair of Oakleys.
jay		Wow. I didn't know you dreamt about me, Dwayne.
dwayne		It was only this once, Jay. To be honest, I didn't know what to make of it. So I consulted my dream book, and found out it means this: you're my road dog. You got my back. 
jay		In what?
dwayne		In crime. And business. You see, it ain't just about the inheritance money. It's about what I'm gonna do with it.
dwayne		I'm about to clue you in on something. And then you'll understand the true magnitude of what's at stake here. Are you ready?
jay		Yes. I'm totally ready.
dwayne		Then answer me this...what's this town missing? I'll give you a hint. It's a cash business, crawling with sexy bitches.
jay		 A Chinese food restaurant?
dwayne		No. A tanning salon.  Think about it. All that green. All that brown flesh.
dwayne		It's also the perfect front for a prostitution ring.
jay		Yeah, of course. Because of the booths.
dwayne		Yes. And because of the bitches.  It can all be ours. 30 percent for you, 70 percent for me. You just gotta help me out here.
dwayne		I'm starting to wonder if my dream book was wrong about you. Maybe you sitting behind me doesn't mean you're my road dog. Maybe it means you're plotting to stab me in the back, like some snake in the grass.
jay		That's crazy. I'd never do something like that. The dream book was right!
jay		Ok. I'll do it. But I'm not shooting him or anything. I'll hold him while you shoot him. That's it.
dwayne		Here's a fact: they don't build prisons for criminals, they build them for idiots. Shit, they got three different types of CSI on TV, just laying out how the police do their business...and still, idiots like you think you can just go out and do a murder yourself.  If you wanna be a millionaire, you gotta think like one. And millionaires don't kill people. They hire assassins. Which I did. We gotta pay him on Tuesday.
jay		What? Why would you do that?
dwayne		I was presented with an opportunity. I took it. 100 thousand bucks for a highly trained assassin is a steal.
jay		But we don't have that kinda money.
dwayne		Now we're addressing the real problem: how do we get the 100 grand? 'Cause once we get that, we get the million. 
jay		I guess we could just...rob a bank. One of these local banks with nothing but a dipshit security guard.
dwayne		Again, not quite thinking like a millionaire.
jay		Okay, then let's hire someone to rob a bank.
dwayne		Fuck hiring them, we could just force someone to rob a bank for us. Like with blackmail, or death threats, or -
jay		 A bomb. Everyone's scared of a bomb.
dwayne		I was gonna say hypnotism...but I like that. It's out of the fucking box. We just strap one to some motherfucker's chest, like we did to those watermelons. Think you can you build some kinda bomb vest?
jay		Yeah, I mean...camel jockeys do it in caves. I got a garage workshop.
dwayne		I'm pretty sure this is exactly how a millionaire would do it. And the beauty of it is: we don't lose any sleep, 'cause no one gets hurt.
jay		Except The Major.
dwayne		Yeah. The Major dies. But no one gets hurt.
dwayne		There's just one problem. Where do we get our guy? 'Cause if we do a kidnapping, then we're right back where we started...doing shit that's gonna get us caught.  What we need is someone to come to us...to a place where we can control the situation. Someone without any connection to us.
pizza chef		 We'll deliver anywhere in 30 minutes or less! Or your pizza is free! Giorgio's Trattoria, where the customer gets what they want...pronto!
dwayne		Sometimes fate just takes out its cock and slaps you in the face with it.
riggs		 I'm hungry. I'm gonna get something to eat.
chet		Maybe you should pace yourself. It's noon on a Saturday.
will		Fridge is full, man. We're all good.
will		Let me ask you a question. You remember Tom Small?
chet		Yeah, he used to kick our asses.
will		Turns out he was probably jerking off to it afterwards. He's gay.
chet		I hope he chokes on a dick. I never liked him.
will		Your sister did. She let him finger blast her. Big time.
chet		What the fuck are you talking about? I don't want that shit in my head.
will		Sorry. Kate told me about it last night. I thought you should know.
chet		You two were swapping stories about getting fingered? That's pretty cute.
will		The point I'm trying to make is this: Tom Small was an asshole. He was totally wrong for your sister. Just like every other guy she's ever dated. Right through to that Mark dude she's gonna get back together with. Un-be- fuck-me-lievable...
chet		Whatever. Why the fuck are we talking about who my sister goes out with?
chet		You sneaky son of a bitch...you want to fuck my sister, don't you?
will		Chet, I really don't...
chet		My twin sister!? Which is basically like fucking me!
will		Hey, if you guys had that twin ESP shit this would be a completely different situation. There'd be logistical problems.
chet		We look exactly alike!
will		You look like a lot of people. You're a normal looking dude.
chet		This is so fucked up I can't even begin to process it. How long has this been going on?
will		If I had to put my finger on it...middle school-ish.
chet		So all those sleepovers, they were just some kind of opportunity for you to peek in Kate's bedroom?
will		It might have happened a few times. Most of them were accidental.
chet		You're a peeping Tom. You realize that, don't you? You're a sexual fucking deviant.
will		Fuck you. I'm as normal as they come. Your sister is attractive. She excites me, in a sexual way. Fucking sue me. Can't we just be adults about it?
chet		You? An adult? Sort of stretching the term.
will		Hey, let's not say shit we can't take back.
chet		Take back? Will, you got kicked out of junior college for punching a professor that made fun of some poem you wrote.
will		That poem was about your sister!
chet		That is, literally, the saddest thing I have ever heard. Like retards playing freeze tag sad. No wonder you deliver pizzas for a living.
will		Fuck you! Maybe I was just hanging out with you for your sister. You were always a whiny little bitch. And you stuttered. All the kids used to call you "Chutter."
chet		Whatever. I only started hanging out with you because you had a Nintendo.
will		Did you see my Nintendo naked? Because I saw your sister changing into her swimsuit at your thirteenth birthday pool party. And it was the highlight of the whole shitty event.
chet		Okay. You wanna do this?
will		I think we already are.
chet		Well, you know who I saw naked? Jenny Rifkin. While I was nailing her. The week after she dumped you. 
will		Wow...wow. You pulled a Judas on Jenny fucking Rifkin. That is messed up. Almost as messed up as how I sold your Cal Ripken signed ball for 200 bucks.
chet		My grandpa left me that ball in his will! You helped me look for it for a month!
will		Now you know why we never found it.
will		We done here?
chet		Not quite yet. There's actually a mystery I wanna solve for you.  I was the one who told John Tanner about how your mom fucked that lifeguard. And I always felt awful about it, because even though he swore secrecy, he told everyone else in town. And then your parents wound up getting divorced. But now...I don't give a shit.
will		What!? You ruined...my fucking life!
chet		Krav Maga, bitch. I bet your poetry professor didn't know this shit.
will		Get offa me!
chet		You threw the first punch!
will		I'm gonna break this hold and then kick your skinny ass!
chet		Try it!
will		What the fuck is that!?
chet		My knuckle in your spine! No holds barred you backstabbing fuck!
will		I'm gonna pass out...
chet		Good!
will		 I love her, Chet...I love Kate...
chet		Let me tell you something. And it's the truest thing you'll ever hear, from the person who knows you best in the world...you're not good enough for my sister. And you never will be. You're the lowest common denominator, Will. You're the square root of fucking zero.
will		Fuck you...Chutter!  Square this!
chet		Get out of my house. You're a shitty friend.
will		Right back at you.
christopher		Come on, wake up and get to work.
will		Where the fuck is this?
christopher		How should I know? It's 30 minutes away or the pizza comes out of your paycheck. Tick tock.
will		Hello?
will		What the -
will		Holy fuck!
dwayne		Stop! We got a gun, you asshole!
dwayne		Fuck! Get him!
will		What the hell!?  Rape!
dwayne		Step one.
dwayne		You thought we were gonna rape you.  Idiot.
dwayne		Just shut up. The tape is there for a reason. 'Cause this next part is gonna take a measure of calm. Are you with me? Can you be calm?
dwayne		Will Dixon, of 112 North Whatever- The-Fuck Street, right now you are wearing an explosive vest.
dwayne		Calm the fuck down!
dwayne		Now stay still and my associate will show you.
jay		Take it easy, man. You're fine. I built this thing. It's pretty stable.
dwayne		For a fucking bomb. So don't trip over your shoelaces or anything. That thing's full of C-4. And the C is for chaos.
jay		Actually, the C stands for "composite." But, yeah, I'd try not to slam into stuff.
dwayne		Can I take that tape off now, pizza boy?
will		Help!
dwayne		You know where you are? You might as well be in space, motherfucker. Nobody can hear you scream.
will		Why are you doing this to me? I don't have any money.
dwayne		Not yet. But you're gonna go get us some.
will		Okay. Sure, man. Whatever you say. I'll go sell my car. I'll get you like a thousand bucks.
dwayne		I want 100 thousand.
will		Where the fuck am I supposed to get that much money?
dwayne		The Donner-Wells National Bank on Charles Road.
jay		Across the street from the Olive Garden.
dwayne		Yeah, the one across the street from the Olive Garden.
will		Do you guys have an account or something?
dwayne		No, I don't have an account! You're gonna rob it!
will		How the fuck am I supposed to rob a bank?
dwayne		Figure it out. You got a bomb strapped to your chest. That's a start. It'll scare the fuck outta people. Maybe use your brain and go get a gun. Borrow one from a friend for all I care. It ain't rocket science.
will		Then do it yourself.
dwayne		I would, but I'm already wearing this gorilla mask and you're already wearing that bomb.  Tell him about the vest.
jay		You seem like a pretty trustworthy guy. I mean, you got a job and all. But just in case you were gonna try to take the vest off, we booby trapped it to shit. There's also a remote detonator on the back, so we can trigger it by dialing a number.
dwayne		And it's on speed dial. So do what you gotta do, but we'll be watching. 
dwayne		It's 9:00 AM. You got 8 hours.
dwayne		Once you have the money, call this number and you'll be given instructions on where to drop it. You do good, we give you the six-digit combination that stops the timer and opens the lock. Tomorrow morning, you can go back to delivering pizza, the mail, whatever the fuck you want.  Now let me demonstrate what happens if you don't get us the money.
dwayne		Hey, Teddy Ruxpin...what's that? You don't have the money? It was too tough to rob the bank, so you just went back to your bear cave and cried like a bitch? Well, guess what my stuffed friend...time is up.
dwayne		I liked that bear. I don't even know you.
dwayne		Go on. Get outta here.
will		Guys, can we please just talk about this?
dwayne		Yeah, of course we can.
dwayne		Be careful!
dwayne		That's right! Get the fuck out of here! You're wasting time!
jay		What the hell, Dwayne? You told me that was a replica gun.
dwayne		It was. Then I paid a Mexican 50 bucks to put a firing pin in it. Now it goes boom.
jay		We didn't discuss a loaded gun! Especially not with the bomb around!
dwayne		Don't you ever question me. I'm fucking this bitch. You're just holding the camera.
jay		 Sure, Dwayne...whatever you say.
dwayne		Good. 'Cause this ain't the Marines. This is cash money. You hesitate, you fuck up...and I will leave you behind.
dwayne		Let's go get some breakfast.
will		Oh, god! Holy shit! Fuck me! Someone please fucking help me!
chet		This whole region here, about 830 thousand square miles, was part of the initial Louisiana Purchase.
seventh grader		 Nice laser.
chet		What do you want?
will		We gotta talk.
chet		I'm working here. Do not mess with me at work.
will		Chet, for the love of god, just talk to me in private for one minute.
chet		You wanna apologize, don't you? You look like shit. You've probably been up for days thinking about what an asshole you were. Well, it's gonna take a lot more than some pathetic groveling -
will		 Chet! Shut up! I don't wanna apologize to you!
chet		Then what do you want? Because we don't have anything left to say to each other.
will		Here goes. And this is gonna sound crazy. Because it is fucking crazy. But last night two guys in masks jumped me and strapped a bomb to my chest, and now I have less than eight hours to rob a bank.
chet		You're hysterical. Got me. Great joke. I'm going back to work now.
chet		What the fuck? Is that real?
chet		Stay away from me! What the fuck are you involved in!? Terrorism!?
will		Chet, do you really think I'm a terrorist?
chet		Yes! One of the dumb ones! The ones they convince to wear the bombs!
will		I am not fucking around here. Two guys did this to me. And if I don't rob that bank in time this thing is gonna blow.
chet		Seriously?
will		Seriously.
chet		And your first idea was to come to a school filled with young children?
will		I didn't -
chet		Just back the fuck away from me with that thing.
will		Listen, I think the vest is safe for now. These guys don't want me to blow myself up on accident before I get their money.
chet		Oh, so you figure the two psychopaths that rigged a bomb to your chest made sure it was safe? There's no margin for error in their fucking bomb vest design!?
will		I don't know! All I do know is that this is real. This is happening. And I'm sure you hate me as much as I hate you right now, but I have nowhere else to go.
chet		For what?
will		For help, Chet. I need your help. Please. I can't do this alone.
chet		Damn it!  I'd like to tell you to get fucked, but you know what the problem is...I'm a better man than you. And someday, I might actually forgive you. So if I let you blow up, or whatever, that shit might come back and eat at my conscience, and totally affect my relationships with other people. Like my wife and kids and shit.
will		That's a...very rational way to look at the situation.  And you're right, about being a better guy than me.
chet		Are you sure that thing isn't gonna blow at any second?
chet		Could you just walk a few feet in front of me for a while?
will		I can do that.
will		Thank you.
chet		Yes, I'm still here. I really am this stupid. Just pay attention to where you're going.
will		I think I can handle it.
chet		These floors get waxed once a week. On Tuesday, which today is. You hit a slick patch, trip and fall, and I got a classroom full of kids wearing their skin inside out.
will		Chet, I'm fucking nervous enough as it is. Please. I don't need you back seat driving me right now.
chet		Obviously.
will		Just for the record, this isn't a nuclear weapon strapped to my chest. And there are metal lockers on either side of the hallway. If I fall, and if this thing goes off, I'm probably not taking out the whole school.
chet		Do you really want to debate this?
chet		You're an asshole.
will		Whatever. It's over.
will		Who was the chick in the white jeans?
chet		Kristi Evans. Why?
will		You know why.
chet		Oh, come on. Just keep walking.
will		Come on yourself. You knew exactly who I was talking about.
chet		Fuck you. She's in the eighth grade.
will		I bet you love it when she calls you Mr. Chet.
chet		She doesn't call me "Mr. Chet." She's not a foreigner.
chet		...thanks so much, Mrs. Davis. I'll call you after I talk to the doctor.
chet		So, this is it?
will		This is what?
chet		Once I step inside this car, I'm basically in a steel coffin with you and...that thing. And if it goes off, all they're gonna find in there are two charred bodies and pieces of a bomb. They'll assume we were driving to a government building to blow it up. It'll be all over the news. Next thing you now, some militia or Islam group is claiming us as members. My family will be humiliated.
will		We'll also be dead, in that particular situation, so it won't really matter.
chet		Exactly!
will		I get it. Take your time, man.
chet		This is the world's biggest favor, you motherfucker. You didn't even help me move last winter.
chet		Given the situation, I think you should obey all traffic safety laws.
will		Fine.
will		Okay, so where are we going?
chet		I have no idea. I just got in your car. I thought you had a plan.
will		Well, I don't! I've been sorta preoccupied with this crushing fear of death!
chet		No plan. I can't say I'm surprised.
will		Your plan is probably better. Just condescend me until I explode.
chet		Maybe we should turn on the radio. See if the signal sets the bomb off. That would be an interesting experiment.
chet		Listen, let's just go back to my place. Figure out our options. Maybe you can get the vest off or something. I just don't want to do anything stupid.
will		Unless we have to.
chet		Holy fucking shit!
will		Stop it! You're scaring the fuck out of me!
chet		Okay. Okay. Fuck!
chet		I'm cool now.
will		Why did you do that?
chet		Do what?
will		I saw you.
chet		It's in case I have to jump out.
will		If I survive the day, and you don't because you jumped out of a moving car and broke your neck, I'm gonna laugh my ass off.
chet		And if abandoning ship saves my life, then that laugh will be mine.
will		It's too tight!
chet		What if we try to separate your shoulder?
chet		Well, all these sites say different shit. There's not a lot of consensus in the bomb disarming community.
will		This is pointless.
chet		I agree. We gotta call the cops, have them fly in the bomb squad or something.
will		We can't. These guys said they'd be following me. And I don't have a clue what they look like. For all I know, they're outside right now. They see the cops show up, they blow the vest and cut their losses.
will		What do I do, man? What do I do now?
chet		I don't know, Will...I guess you gotta rob the bank.
will		I haven't been inside a bank in three years! How the fuck am I supposed to rob one!? They wouldn't even give me a savings account!
chet		It's gonna be okay.
will		No, it's not! I'm gonna blow up! That's way worse than getting stabbed or shot. At least some people survive that. No one survives being blown up. 
chet		Pull yourself together!
will		Ow! Fuck! I think you popped my eardrum.
chet		Sorry. Shit. I didn't mean to do that. But just listen to me now. You're not gonna die. You wanna know why? Because you know exactly how to rob a bank.
will		What are you talking about?
chet		Point Break.
will		The movie?
chet		Yes. That movie is like a how-to guide for bank robberies. You just bust in. Masks. Guns. Move fast. Stick to the tellers and don't bother with the vault.
will		Yeah...I guess it's pretty simple, right? And it's just a local bank. The Donner-Wells on Charles Road.
chet		Really? I applied for a job there like a year ago.
will		You wanted to be a teller?
chet		Yeah, so what? It's a good job. You get benefits.
will		Like what, a name tag?
chet		What kind of benefits do you get? Free toppings?
will		That's really clever. No one ever said that shit to me before. Anyway, this is perfect. You know the whole layout of the bank.
chet		Not exactly. They didn't hand me the security schematics with the application. But I sat in the waiting area for like 20 minutes. I know what the place looks like.
will		How many guards?
chet		One. I think.
will		That's a start.
chet		It's a great start. You can do it.
will		You're gonna do it with me, right?
chet		I was actually gonna stick to giving tips, ideas...motivational speeches. More of a consultant or advisory role.
will		Jesus Christ, Chet. Please. I'm begging you here. I need you on this. If I do it alone, I'm dead.
chet		Are you gonna cry again?
will		That was a moment of weakness.  Yes. I'll fucking cry again if that's what it takes.
chet		I should make you blow me.
will		Sure. Whip that shit out. I'm actually kinda curious. I wanna see if Jenny Rifkin lied to you. She obviously lied to me.
will		All these guys want is 100 grand. We can do this.
chet		We're gonna rob a bank for 100 grand? Just leave the rest of the money sitting there? Why?
will		I don't know. I guess they're very modest criminals. Who the fuck cares? Wait...you said "we" right?
chet		I'm putting my life on the line for 100 grand...what does 100 grand even buy these days?
juicy		I missed you so much, baby.
vaughn		You don't got enough dicks to keep you warm in that place?
juicy		You know it's not like that. Those guys get Juicy, but you get Marisol.
vaughn		Well, Marisol...what I want is to get my money, kill that old ass man, then get the fuck out of here.
juicy		Then that's how it's gonna go. We're just waiting on a call.
vaughn		This is my impatient face.
juicy		Well, I think I can keep you entertained.
will		Should we go with the handguns...or the Uzis?
chet		Handguns.
will		That's such a Murtaugh choice.
register woman		You sure you don't want to grab some condoms?
will		Uh, no. Why?
register woman		Because this is usually what men buy before they rape someone, and I want to make sure you all use protection.
will		Lady, we're just...buying some stuff.
register woman		Is that cash or credit for your rape kit?
chet		We'll pay cash.
dwayne		You really fucked up this mix tape.
dwayne		We're not speed freaks knocking off a 7-Eleven. We're masterminding a heist here.
jay		Sorry, Dwayne. That song just means a lot to me.
dwayne		I wish he would hurry his shit up.
jay		You worried about that other guy he's with?
dwayne		No, man. He picked him up at a school. So long as there ain't any cops, he can take the whole town with him. I just want my money.
jay		What? You want me to run over to Subway, get us a couple sandwiches?
dwayne		If you had any vision, Jay, you'd know exactly what I'm thinking about right now. And it's not a sandwich.  Look how well trafficked that shopping mall is. It's the perfect place for the tanning salon.
jay		Oh, you're totally right.
dwayne		I've been thinking about it, and I want you to start off working the counter. Sounds like a demotion, I know, but it's an important position. Because we're gonna be using code words and shit. For example, if a customer walks in and says he wants a tan, that just means he wants a tan. But if he says he wants a "deluxe tan," that means a blow job and you gotta get one of the girls in there to suck him off. You with me?
jay		So far. But what if he wants a fuck?
dwayne		There's gonna be codes for everything: missionary, anal, black chicks. I got it all written down back home in my files. 
jay		Okay. 'Cause they're about to get away.
dwayne		Fuck.
will		Be careful, you're getting paint everywhere.
chet		Are you really worried about your upholstery right now?
will		Yes, because if I survive this shit I'm quitting my job. That means I'll probably have to give up my place and I'll be sleeping in the back of my car, which you're covering in toxic paint.
will		That side isn't dry yet. You're about to ruin it.
chet		It says it's fast drying.
will		Fast isn't the same as instant. You gotta let it sit for like 20 minutes.
chet		How would you know? You do a lot of graffiti?
will		No, but I spray painted my bike last year after I got my license suspended. I didn't let it dry properly and I fucked it up.
chet		We don't have time to sit around and literally watch paint dry. Aren't we going straight to the bank?
will		I was actually thinking we need to stop and steal a car first.
chet		What? No way! We've got a car.
will		Yeah, my car. I'm not gonna use it as a getaway vehicle. They can trace the plates. Even if we do get away, we'll be arrested.
chet		Well, I can't hotwire a fucking automobile, and neither can you.
will		That's why I was thinking we'd steal one from your parents' friends. The Fishers. Remember how they used to pay us to clean their garage? They leave the keys in there. And they have a Datsun. That's a fast car.
chet		I'm not stealing the Fishers' Datsun. Let's steal a car from your parents' friends.
will		What friends? My parents don't have any. My dad moved away after your big mouth ruined his marriage and humiliated him, and no one wanted to hang out with the mom who everyone knew fucked a lifeguard.
chet		You never should have told me! I was 13 years old. I couldn't process that kind of information. I had to tell someone else.  Fuck. I really am sorry about it. Okay? Despite what I said before. I was just a kid, but I messed up.
will		Okay.
chet		That's it? You're not gonna apologize for selling my Cal Ripken ball?
will		Sure. I'm sorry...I'm sorry that my family was going through a rough patch and I was smoking a ton of weed and listening to the Wu Tang Clan all the time. And that I needed some extra dough to indulge my habit. Which, in hindsight, was probably just a cry for help. But you never even noticed.
chet		Thanks. Now I feel even worse.
will		I shouldn't have stolen the ball. I knew it was wrong and I regretted it like the next day. I actually tried to buy it back but the guy wanted twice as much. I had to smoke even more weed just to get past the whole shitty incident. I guess that's why they call it a downward spiral.
chet		I appreciate that you tried to buy it back. So, thanks.
chet		We should probably get going.
chet		Fuck! Fuck! I just want this goddamn day to be over!
will		The keys aren't here. They always used to leave the keys out.
chet		Yeah. When we were teenagers. This is fucked.
will		Let's just find them.
chet		Sorry.
chet		You hear that?
will		What?
chet		Mr. Fisher is coming!
chet		Oh shit, oh shit. Are the keys in there?
will		No!
chet		What are you doing?
will		I'm doing what I have to.
will		Where are the car keys?
will		Quiet down and do it already.
will		Now listen, I don't want you to report this car stolen or anything until later tonight. Let's say 5 o'clock. 6 to be safe.
will		If you fuck with us, I swear, I will...I will shoot your son. Taylor. I know where he works. At the fucking travel agency. He's the douchebag with the bangs.
will		I'm gonna trust you. But if you call the police, there's gonna be an undertaker styling his stupid fucking bangs!  Now open the garage door.
will		The car's insured, right?
will		Okay. I feel better. Worse comes to worst, something happens to it, you can get a Honda. This thing doesn't even have airbags.
chet		That old man's got a heart condition! You could have killed him!
will		My hand was forced!
chet		Awesome. I'm stuck inside an even smaller car with you and a bomb.
will		This thing's got some pickup.
chet		Could you just take it easy, we're doing fine on time.
will		I know...but there's one last stop we have to make.
chet		Do you have to take a piss first? Because I do.
will		I need to see your sister.
chet		Are you for real? Did you really just ask me that? You salt-in-an- open-wound motherfucker!
will		Chet, as if it isn't apparent, I may die today. I'll probably die today. And if there's one small thing that's clear to me now, it's that I've wasted two and a half decades as a pussy, watching everything I want pass me by. I don't wanna peace out of this world as a pussy. I need to tell her how I feel.
chet		You're really gonna turn this into some sort of dying wish bullshit?
will		Yes, I really am. It means that much to me. I am not fucking around here.
chet		I don't think you are. I mean, apparently, you love my sister so much that you're willing to put her life in danger by going to see her with a bomb strapped to your chest.
will		She won't be in danger. I promise. I got it all worked out. And you can even take a piss while I'm inside.
dwayne		Where the fuck is he going? What's in there? Some sort of FBI headquarters? I told that guy not to fuck around!
dwayne		Maybe I should give that bomb a call.
jay		No! Let me just go see what he's up to.
dwayne		I was just fucking around. Are you gay for this guy or something?
jay		I just wanna get the money, Dwayne. Same as you.
dwayne		All right. Then man up and go check it out.
dwayne		Don't even tell me you're about to do a reconnaissance without a cover. What's you cover?
jay		I don't know...I'm from the telephone company?
dwayne		Yeah, nice fucking uniform.
dwayne		You're a personal shopper. You're delivering the latest fashions to Mr. Quilby in marketing. Got it?
dwayne		"He's got the whole world in his hands. He's got whole fucking world in his hands..."
will		...no, I'm here right now.
will		Because strange shit is going on. I'll explain everything. Just meet me where I texted you.
will		Please. Just do it.
kate		 Will?
will		Stop!
kate		What are you doing?
will		Just don't come any closer.
kate		Why not? What's going on?
will		I'm gonna give you the short version of an incredibly complicated and fucked up situation, so please be cool.  Some very bad guys strapped a bomb to my chest and they are forcing me to commit a crime.
kate		Will, I swear, if this is -
will		I wish I was joking, but I'm not. I know it's a lot to swallow, but you gotta take it on face value, because there's a timer attached to this thing and it's counting down.
kate		Oh my god, Will...we'll get help. I'll get you help.
will		I didn't come here for help. I'm taking care of it. I came here because, should things not work out today as I would like them to, I want you to know why I was doing the things I did.
kate		Please, just let me call someone. Let me do something. This is crazy!
will		I don't disagree with you. It's fucking nuts. But that's not even what this is about.  Do you remember when you found that picture in my car of you, me and Chet, with Chet cut out of it?
kate		Will, I can't remember about some stupid picture while you're -
will		I need you to remember about the picture, and about how I stop by your office every Friday, and how I've always hated all your boyfriends, and how the two girls I've ever seriously dated have looked like less attractive versions of you.  Do you see where I'm going with this? I love you Kate. I have for a very long time.
kate		Will, this is a lot you're putting on me! You just told me people are trying to kill you or something, and now you say you love me. What the fuck is going on?
will		A whole lot of shit. I'm sorry to do this to you, but I was afraid I'd never get the chance to tell you. And I know you have feelings for me, too. Maybe you feel for me the way you feel for a good friend, or - if the world fucking hates me - a brother. 
kate		Yes. I mean, I've known you forever. It's not an easy thing to figure out.
will		I don't need an answer now. Just think about it. And no matter what you decide, you're too good for assholes like Mark and the rest of them.
kate		Okay. I will process all of this. It's just, the bomb -
will		It's distracting. I know. Anyway, I'd love to stay and talk some more, but I can't. I gotta ask you to leave now, because I'm running out of time.
kate		If I had time to think about it...I'd probably tell you that I've always felt very strongly for you. And I've never thought of you as a brother.
will		That's a huge relief. Don't say anything else. I just really don't want to die now.
kate		Try not to. Please.
jay		I'm, uh...I'm a personal shopper. I'm looking for Mr. Quilby.
kate		I'm sorry, I don't know who that is.
dwayne		So?
jay		It was just his girlfriend or something.
dwayne		Getting one last blow job in case he don't make it. I kinda like this guy.
chet		Did you tell her how you saw her naked when she was 13? That always works.
will		I said my piece. She's gonna think about it.
chet		Shut up. She was freaked out.
will		Yes. By the bomb.
chet		By you.
will		Would it be so bad if we ended up together? You and I would be family.
chet		I don't want you in the family. You bring very little to the table. I want her to be with someone awesome. A pro quarterback. A war hero. At the very least, someone I've never watched porn with.
will		Well, now it's up to her.
chet		Not if I set that bomb off myself.
will		Then you'd probably never get to rob a bank.
will		You go for the money. I'll cover the crowd. In and out.
chet		I'm not feeling so good. I drank like three of those 5-Hour Energy drinks.
will		It's just nerves. Let's pull our shit together and do this thing.
chet		What should I call you in there, like if I need to ask you to do something?
will		Call me Tivon. You'll be Darius.
chet		I can tell you're not a black guy through the ski mask.
will		Fine. Then you'll be Luis and I'm Cruz. We're two loco motherfuckers and that's the way we gotta roll when we get in there.
will		Everybody put your hands in the air!
chet		No, get on the ground!
will		Actually, listen to him and get on the fucking ground!
will		Shut up! Please!
will		You, just stand right there and don't do shit! The rest of you get the fuck down! Spread your arms and legs! Why is no one listening to me!?
security guard		Just take it easy, man!
will		Don't be a hero, cowboy!
security guard		What the fuck does that mean? I'm not a hero! Or a cowboy!
chet		All of you, back away from the counter and get out here! Anyone pushes a button and one of these people gets totally shot!
will		Very slowly, take out your gun and toss it away.
mom		Oh, god! I don't want the gun!
will		 What the fuck!? Did you do that on purpose!?
security guard		It was an accident!
chet		Are you guys working together?
mom		No! Please take this gun away!
will		Just toss it, lady!
fat man		I think she got the femoral artery!
mom		I'm sorry! It was an accident!
fat man		Fuck you! Who slides a gun like that!?
daughter		Mommy, what's happening!?
mom		Christi, be quiet. These men are dangerous.
chet		This is fucked. That dude is gonna bleed out and we're gonna go to prison.
will		Just calm down.
fat man		Why is no one getting me help!?
will		Is anyone here a doctor?
will		Sir, let me see where you're hit.
fat man		Just call me an ambulance!
will		Calm down, sir.
will		It's just a flesh wound. You're gonna be okay.
fat man		But it hurts so bad.
will		You got shot, man. It's not supposed to feel good. But you're gonna be fine. And you'll have a great story to tell everyone.
fat man		This is an awful story! This isn't a bank error in my favor! I got shot!
will		Point taken. Luis, how we doing on the money?
chet		Oh, shit. Sorry, Cruz.
chet		Hey, Sandra. I know you're probably scared right now, but if you go grab us 100 grand in a bag, we'll get out of here. This will all be over and you'll be fine. You trust me?
fat man		My leg really hurts!
will		Can you please hurry up, Sandra!?
will		I'm really sorry, everyone. I know we probably fucked up your day.  I'm thinking of you in particular, sir. Actually, you know what...
will		Quickly. Peel a few bills. On me. Anyone rats him to the cops and I'm coming for you. I remember faces.
chet		What the fuck was that about, Sandra? I thought we had something going! What happened to trust?
sandra		I'm sorry! They make us do it!
will		Could you kindly fill another bag? Not a bank bag. A fucking garbage bag. And Luis, will you watch her this time?
chet		Okay. That should be enough.
will		Fuck! Which one of you assholes tripped the alarm!? Was it you, Sandra!?
sandra		No! It was Mark! He pushed the button when you guys came in!
mark		Sandra, you bitch! Now they're gonna kill us both!
sandra		Fuck you, Mark! You're the manager!
will		Fuck both of you! Fuck all of you! I'm a regular guy! Just like you! I'm a regular guy and you fucked me! Thank you for fucking a regular guy!
chet		Let's just get the fuck out of here.
officer zurman		Drop your weapons!
chet		Don't shoot us!
officer zurman		Drop the guns or I'll have to!
will		Fuck you! You just brought a gun to a bomb fight, officer! I pull these wires out and we all go! You got ten seconds to drop your gun and -
jay		Oh, yeah, who's gonna build it?
dwayne		You are!
chet		Shit! This is not cool!
chet		Maybe we should pull over and surrender.
will		I can outrun these guys. They're not the FBI, they're local cops. Just shut up and let me concentrate. I do this for a living.
chet		You don't do anything like this for a living! I am not a pizza, I am a man!
will		Holy fuck!
chet		Go! Go! Go!
chet		Stop! Stop! Stop!
will		That guy got fucked up.
will		Chet? Are you okay? Chet!?
chet		 Oh my god...
will		Talk to me.
chet		I thought you were gonna blow up.
will		No. Luckily your side took most of the impact.
chet		Awesome.
will		We gotta keep moving.
will		Oh, fuck, man. Come on.
will		Chet...I don't know how to tell you this...but you got a piece of the car in you.
chet		What!?
will		In your back.
chet		Ah! Get it out!
will		I will.
chet		Do it now!
will		All right.
chet		Is it rusty? Am I gonna get tetanus?
chet		Why are you moving so slowly?
will		It's a combination of cheap sneakers and this heavy fucking bomb on my chest!
will		Hey! Over here!
dwayne		You hear what happened to the guys they were after?
random local		Sounds like they got away.
will		I never thought I'd see you again.
chet		I thought you hated this car.
will		It's actually not that bad. You know, as compared to that Datsun. The Mustang's got more comfortable seats. And it never would have flipped over.
will		There's a 100 grand in there. 100 fucking grand. Which we stole. From a bank.
chet		I told a bunch of people I was gonna shoot someone. I was like "you fucking move, and I will kill you where you stand!"
will		I threatened to blow up a cop.  And you never said "I will kill you where you stand."
chet		I know. But shit did get pretty crazy.
will		Yeah, it did.
will		You know, there's no one I would have rather taken down a fucking bank with. I mean that.
chet		Me, neither.
will		And as for all that shit I said...and all that shit I did...I hope you can forgive me. We've been friends for so long, and I guess you hurt the people you're closest to the most.
chet		I messed up, too. I'm a dude who slept with his best friend's ex- girlfriend, and destroyed his parents' marriage, and sat on the sidelines watching his downward spiral. I'm a shitty human being. But I'm glad you know that now, because you can accept me for who I am.
will		I do. I accept you. Because you accept me.
chet		Woah! You still got a bomb on you.
will		You're right. Let's take care of that. But you owe me a hug.
will		It's all gravy from here.
dwayne		This who I think it is? WILL  What's that supposed to mean? DWAYNE One of those cops who wrecked his car chasing you...he ain't breathing no more. Will goes white, covers the phone and whispers to Chet - WILL We killed a cop. CHET You were driving! I'm just an accomplice! WILL They're gonna hunt us down and kill us. Cops don't take this shit lightly.
chet		I bet he had like eight kids. We have to find them and support his family forever.
dwayne		I'm just messin' with you. You didn't kill anyone. How'd a moron like you manage to rob a bank?
dwayne		There's a boarded up gas station out on Commerce Avenue, past the highway. Be there in 30 minutes.
dwayne		Then you'll be standing around with your dick in one hand, and my money in the other.
dwayne		Yo, Juicy, wrangle your boy. Money's on its way.
dwayne		I remember the summer after my mother passed was the first year they had the Monopoly game at McDonald's. I musta come here three times a day trying to collect all the game pieces. Packed on 20 pounds, got acne from all the grease. The Major said I was the fattest, ugliest 13-year-old he ever laid eyes on. But I didn't care, I just wanted to win the money and get the fuck out of there. So, one night, I followed this skinny register kid home, jumped him. I kept whaling on him, asking him where they were hiding the Park Place piece. The million dollar prize. But he didn't know shit. A year later, The Major won the lotto. I asked him for a Sega Genesis. He bought me one of those paddles with the ball attached.
dwayne		I'm not ashamed to admit that I've gone through some dark times since then. Depression. Addiction to a variety of shit, which I won't go into. I know you must think that's pretty silly, especially since you manage to get through the day and you don't got shit going on as compared to me. But that's just the way it is. That's life.
jay		You know, I've been pretty low, too... if you ever want to talk about that kinda stuff.
dwayne		No. I don't. My whole point I was trying to make before you interrupted me was that that shit is all in the past. 'Cause I did it. I finally pulled it off.
jay		We pulled it off, Dwayne. The two us. We're a good team.
dwayne		Are we? Would you do anything to protect me, my money, my empire?
jay		Yeah, sure...  I mean, like what kinda stuff are we talking about?
dwayne		Would you push the button?
jay		Why would you want me to do that?
dwayne		It's just a question, Jay. Would you? If I asked you? 
jay		Watermelons aren't alive.
dwayne		Yeah, they are. Not the ones you blew up, though.
jay		No one gets hurt...right, Dwayne?
dwayne		Oh, yeah. I forgot about that part.
dwayne		Anyway, he hasn't even made the drop yet. I'm gonna go take a shit. Stay away from the bathroom. Someone could get hurt.
will		Where are the other guys?
vaughn		I'm the only guy.  You got it?
vaughn		What the fuck did you do...rob a bank?
will		 Yes.
will		Now where's the code?
vaughn		I don't have any code.
will		Listen, man, I just want the code.
vaughn		I don't know what the fuck you're talking about.
will		The code for the fucking bomb!
vaughn		What kind of stupid motherfucker wears a bomb to a drop?
will		Your boss put this on me.
vaughn		I am my boss.
will		Then give me the code!
vaughn		Motherfucker, I don't know no goddamn code. Whoever told you I did, lied to you. Now step the fuck off, or I'll shoot you in the face so you don't explode and mess up my boots.
will		If you don't have the code, I want that money back.
vaughn		The only way you're getting this money back is if you kill me.
will		You don't know what I've gone through for that money!
vaughn		Do I look sympathetic? Now step the fuck aside.
juicy		Vaughn, look out!
will		Let's go!
will		What the fuck was that?
chet		They tried to screw us. You're a liability. They were just gonna let you blow up.
will		Not with the money they won't.
dwayne		Never comes out this nice when I do it myself. You might wanna take some more off the top, though. I wanna look real professional when I go down to the morgue to identify the body.
dwayne		You drop the money yet?
will		No! I've still got the money! And I cracked your friend's face open!
will		You lied! You said I'd get the code!
dwayne		I gave him the code. He told me he committed it to memory. 
dwayne		Hold on there, big man. You got a bomb on you. I got a cell phone that detonates it. You're not exactly negotiating from a position of leverage.
chet		Don't tell him to push the button! Pull over! Pull over!
dwayne		Why don't you watch what the fuck you say! I own you! I tell you to rob a bank, and you rob a bank. I tell you to give me the money, and you give me the goddamn money and hope I show you some mercy.
dwayne		That piece of shit hung up on me!
chet		Get me out of this car!
chet		That was colossally stupid!
will		It was a negotiation tactic. He'll call back and I won't answer. Then he'll call back and I will answer, and he'll realize the only way he gets the money is if he gives me the code.
chet		Sure! That seems like a perfectly logical pattern of thought! I bet that's exactly what he'll do!
dwayne		Does this guy know who the fuck I am!?
jay		Dwayne...you never told me you weren't going to give him the code.
dwayne		We're not amateurs. He was a loose end. I let him live, someday I woulda been walking out of my mansion and... bam! FBI, CIA, NSA, all converging on my front lawn, 'cause a loose end turned state's evidence and they got what they need to put me away.
dwayne		Fuck it, Jay. I'll just kill The Major myself.
jay		Don't do it.
dwayne		You know what they say about a tree falling in the forest? Maybe the same thing applies to blowing up some motherfucker across town. Maybe it doesn't even make a sound.
dwayne		Boom.
dwayne		Who did I just call, Jay? 'Cause she sounded cute for a bomb.
jay		 Gina Kim. My seventh grade crush. Or whoever lives in Gina Kim's house now.
dwayne		Where's the number for the bomb?
jay		In my head. I switched it out of your phone while you were taking a shit. You're out of control, Dwayne.
dwayne		I'm in perfect control!
jay		Stop it!
vaughn		Who the fuck do you think you're talking to!?
vaughn		Let me give you a hint: your boy just jumped me, tossed my bitch like a rag doll and split with the cash.
dwayne		That guy's not my boy. He's a dick. I'm sorry for all the, uh, confusion.
dwayne		I wasn't fucking you, I was fucking him. You gotta understand, you're like a pawn in a much larger game I'm playing here.
dwayne		I didn't mean it like that. I'm just juggling a whole lot of shit.
dwayne		That may not be possible.  I just want to put this out there, to keep you in the loop...but I may need to bump the hit.
vaughn		This isn't a reservation at Sizzler! You don't "bump" it! I want you to bring me my money right now, to where I am standing in this shit hole town, bleeding from the motherfucking face!
vaughn		The deal's off! You just became the hit!
juicy		He lives with his daddy. You already got the address.
dwayne		That's it. The assassin's gonna kill me now. I'm gonna die. Game fucking over.
jay		We can still get him the money. Try the pizza guy back.
dwayne		Why? So he can fuck around again, and I wind up dead, anyway? No. I'd rather just sit here. I want to die right here on this couch.
jay		No. We're gonna get that money. Just like we planned. All we gotta do is get the leverage back.
dwayne		How do we do that? Pizza boy's obviously got some kinda death wish.
jay		We take the girl. The one he went to see. Then he won't try shit.
dwayne		That's actually...that's a great fucking idea, Jay. It's the best idea anyone's had all day.
jay		I was just trying to figure out how you would do it, Dwayne.
dwayne		Ok. Then let's do it right. We leave nothing to chance. Because if we go to prison for this, I won't be able to watch out for you.
jay		Ok, Dwayne.
dwayne		You should probably bring the flamethrower, buddy. There's gonna be some evidence to dispose of.
chet		It's been half an hour.
will		He'll call.
chet		In another 30 minutes I'm calling the bomb squad.
chet		These guys obviously aren't watching you anymore.
will		You know, even if they get the bomb squad here in time, and they can somehow get this thing off me, we still gotta answer for the robbery.
chet		I'll take the heat with you, Will.
will		Nah. I'll tell them I forced you into it. That you didn't have a choice.
chet		Thanks, man.
dwayne		What's the quietest way out of the building? 'Cause I might get excited in a confrontation, and you might wind up shot in the face.
major		Dwayne?
vaughn		I'm looking for your son.
major		Even if I knew where he was, I wouldn't tell you nothing.
vaughn		Don't be stupid.
major		You know, I saved a black man's life in the shit. So if I took yours I'd be even.
vaughn		I see where your son gets his common sense. 
vaughn		Just tell me where he is!
major		You think I'm scared of death? There's a whole generation of gooks that think I'm the grim reaper.
major		I'll ride you all the way to hell! I know exactly how to get there!
vaughn		What now, old man!? You can't kill me! None of y'all can kill me!
major		Go on and -
vaughn		Motherfucker has lost his mind...
chet		Look at the upshot, while you're behind bars you can finally finish your degree. If I was there, too, it would just be a distraction.
will		Great idea, Chet. Thanks a lot. I'll just sit here and figure out a fucking major.
will		Hey, it's them.
will		You ready to talk now?
dwayne		 Yeah, I'm ready to talk. I want my money. Meet me back at the radio tower in 50 minutes.
dwayne		That's the point. I want you on a short leash.
dwayne		Yeah, I'm sure. You just wanna go back to your fantastic life. Your great job. And that blonde bitch with the sexy voice.
will		What the fuck is that supposed to mean?
will		Fuck you! You crossed a line!
dwayne		There are no lines! There's just me and you and 100 thousand dollars. Once we get that shit in order, you can have her back, and your life, too. So you're gonna show up where I say, when I say. Alone. And if you try anything stupid, the two of you will be delivering pizzas to Saint Peter.
will		Let me talk to her.
dwayne		You got ten seconds.
kate		Will...?
kate		It's okay...I'm fine...I'm just really -
dwayne		She's just really gonna die if you fuck this up.
will		Fuck!
chet		What happened?
will		They have Kate.
chet		What the fuck does that mean!?
will		They took her, man. They must have followed us to her office.
chet		Damn it! You had to go see her!
will		I'm sorry. I messed up...I finally messed up worse than I could have possibly imagined.
chet		We gotta get her back, Will. These guys are crazy.
will		We still got the money. As long as we have that, she's alive. Come on.
will		I'm here!
dwayne		How much time you got left?
will		Ten minutes.
dwayne		Damn. Maybe we should just wait around for the money shot.
dwayne		That the money?
will		Maybe. Where's the girl?
dwayne		In the van. Maybe.
will		Get her out here. You're wasting time.
kate		Will, are you there?
will		I'm here. It's gonna be okay.
dwayne		This is a fucking tearjerker.
will		Just let her come over here.
dwayne		I will. But you should know, my associate over there is packing a flamethrower.
jay		 Just do what we say. Don't mess around or anything.
dwayne		Unless either of you can outrun a 25- foot flame.  Or a bullet.
will		Get back.
dwayne		I gave you the girl. Now give me the money.
will		How about we get the code out of the way first, since this bomb happens to be ticking so close to all of us.
dwayne		Fair enough.
dwayne		 You ready to be a free man?
will		Just give it to me!
dwayne		It's so fucking pretty, ain't it?
jay		Yeah. It's awesome.
dwayne		Okay, you can get out of here now.
will		I actually have this sneaking suspicion that once we turn around, you're gonna put a bullet in both of our backs - and this is just a guess - burn our bodies.
dwayne		They say great minds think alike. And in this case, so do we.
will		I figured as much. That's why I got a gun pointed at you, too.  I got a sniper in the bushes locked on you right now.
dwayne		Do I look that dumb?
will		I can't tell, you're wearing a mask.
jay		Hey...on your forehead.
dwayne		Son of a bitch. Well played.
will		We're gonna walk out of here now. If you shoot, my sniper shoots. I can't guarantee he'll get both of you. But he'll definitely get you.
vaughn		Wasn't expecting to see you here.
dwayne		It's all good. We got your money.
vaughn		Nice mask, Dwayne. Now throw the money over here.
dwayne		Hold up. You don't have to do this. I just paid you.
vaughn		I've been hit with a pipe, shot with a pen, and wasted my whole motherfucking day...all because of you and this job.
dwayne		I don't know what you're talking about. Just take the money.
vaughn		I will. And then I'm gonna tie up the two loose ends in the gorilla masks.
dwayne		I'm not a loose end!
vaughn		You're a fucking idiot. You are as loose as ends get.
vaughn		What the -
kate		Chet!? What are you doing here!?
chet		Not now. We gotta take off.  Where's Will?
will		I got the money. Let's get the fuck out of here.
dwayne		No!!
jay		Dwayne! Help!
dwayne		Goddamn it, Jay!
dwayne		Stop, drop and roll!
jay		You came back for me...you said you never would.
dwayne		You didn't hesitate back there, Jay. You did good.
dwayne		I'm gonna go put a bullet in that motherfucker and get our money. Think you can get outta here?
jay		Yeah. Go get him.
kate		Uh...I just got kidnapped.
chet		Yeah, that was totally Will's fault. In case you want to factor that in while you're mulling over the whole relationship thing.
will		I'm very sorry about the kidnapping. This is me, taking responsibility for it. Growing up. Like a viable life partner.
chet		This man has spied on you in the nude before!
will		What? No, I didn't.
chet		He's lying. He's trying to build a relationship on a foundation of lies. And it won't stand.
kate		I just got kidnapped! Can we talk about that!?
will		Oh, shit. One of those dudes is definitely not dead!
chet		Hurry up! He's already on us!
dwayne		I own this town.
kate		What the hell was that?
will		That was the bomb I carried around all day. I reactivated it and put it in the back of his van. I guess his time was up.
chet		"His time was up?" Were you thinking that up the whole day?
will		I was prepared, yes. I can't help it if I'm the kind of guy who thinks about the future.
chet		 He's not that kind of guy. He doesn't think about the future. Ever.
kate		What exactly happened since I saw you this afternoon?
will		Primarily, we robbed a bank.
kate		What!? So you're, like, fugitives? What do we do now?
chet		Yeah, Will. What does the future hold?
will		Nothing good if we stay in town and they pin this on us. Kate, I think you should put in for that vacation time. Right now. If anyone gives you a problem, tell them to fuck off. There's 100 grand in that trash bag by your feet. A third of it's yours.
kate		Will, that's -
chet		Fucked up. Why does she get a share?
will		Why do you get a share?
will		Airport's 30 minutes away. Pick a destination. This time it's not a practice run.
dwayne		Dad?
dwayne		Dad, are you -
major		Dwayne...
dwayne		What happened to you?
major		Some guy...said you hired him to kill me.
dwayne		Dad, I...I'd never...
major		Look at you...lip quivering like you're getting fucked...be a man.
dwayne		I am a man! I killed you, didn't I? Now I'm gonna use your money to open a tanning salon where they let you fuck the chicks.
major		You mean...like those whorehouses...in 'Nam...I used to tell you about?
dwayne		Those were great bedtime stories.
major		Medics are late...probably a couple lazy spicks...you tell 'em I said so...all right, son?
dwayne		Sure thing, pop.
major		Hell of thing...I think I may...actually respect you now.
dwayne		Get up, you pussy! Come on, soldier!
chet		Fucking nine dollars to use the internet.
will		And?
chet		Police think it was that black guy. They found some kind of map in his car. And I'm sure racial profiling played a part.
will		But nothing about us?
chet		Nope. Guess it's time to head back.
will		I was thinking we'd stick around a little a longer.
chet		Why? So you have more time to delude my sister?
will		Yes. And it'd be easier if you gave us five fucking minutes alone.
chet		You really think she's into you?
will		 I kissed her last night. No tongue. Then you walked in.
chet		You're gonna go fuck my sister now, aren't you?
will		I'll be thinking of you the whole time.
chet		At the very least...be a considerate lover. Give pleasure, before taking pleasure.
will		I think I'm reading you. And I will try my best.
will		You're Riggs! You always have been!
will		I lied and told your brother I kissed you. I thought it would make this easier.
kate		Here's an idea: pretend you have a bomb strapped to your chest. Tick, TICK -
kate		Is Chet watching us?
will		Probably. We should go inside. I promised him I'd satisfy you.
dwayne		GRAND OPENING SPECTACULARRR!
dwayne		Here at Major Tan, our specially trained technicians are hard at work developing new technologies that harness the power of the sun, to ensure a cutting-edge tanning experience.
dwayne		How's it looking?
jay		It's our most advanced tanning bed yet!
dwayne		Hey, don't just take this scientist's word for it. The proof...
dwayne		...is in the tan.
dwayne		But Major Tan isn't just about looking good. It's also about feeling good.
random guy		That "Deluxe Tan" was fantastic!
dwayne		So come on down to Major Tan...where we're proud to be a family business.
****Dialogues from script :42.txt****

white - march 14, 2012		Blue Revised - April 7, 2012 Pink Revised - April 19, 2012 Yellow Revised - April 24, 2012 Green Revised - April 27, 2012 Goldenrod Revised - May 9, 2012 Buff Revised - May 29, 2012 Salmon Revised - June 4, 2012 Cherry Revised - June 11, 2012 Tan Revised - June 25, 2012 Double White Revised - June 28, 2012 Double Blue Revised - July 9, 2012
rickey		Gentlemen, I have a plan... As of now, only the Board of Directors and my family know.
sukeforth		A plan's always good, Mr. Rickey. And you always got one.
rickey		My wife says I'm too old, That my health isn't up to it. My son says that every one in baseball will be against me. But I'm going to do it.
sukeforth		Do what, Mr. Rickey?
rickey		I'm going to bring a Negro ballplayer to the Brooklyn Dodgers.
parrott		With all due respect, sir, have you lost your mind? Imagine the abuse you'll take from the newspapers alone. Never mind how it'll play on Flatbush. Please, Mr. Rickey.
rickey		There's no law against it, Clyde.
sukeforth		There's a code. Break a law and get away with it, some people think you're smart. Break an unwritten law though, you'll be an outcast.
rickey		So be it. New York is full of Negro baseball fans; every dollar is green. I don't know who he is, or where he is, but he's coming.
catcher		Where'd you learn to move like that, runner?! At dime a dance night?! Stay quiet! INSERT: Birmingham, Alabama. April 8, 1945. On the first pitch the runner takes off. The catcher fires to second. See it from his POV as the runner slides in SAFE! A foot on the bag, the runner dusts off, heckles the catcher:
runner		Is that the best you got?! Huh?! I'm going to steal nine, ten bases today! You better start counting! The catcher frowns. Standing, we see he is a big, big man.
catcher		He's got a mouth on him. Shaking his head, the catcher gets back in his crouch, signals the PITCHER. On the wind-up, the Runner is off again. The catcher fires to THIRD: Safe!
runner		You got a rag arm, catcher!
catcher		Steal home! You'll find out what kind of arm I got!
runner		Okay, I'm coming! The Catcher looks over at Scott who chuckles.
catcher		California, huh?
jack		What was I? The umpire passes one hand over the other: Safe. Jack looks over at the catcher, gives him a pointed look as he goes -- The catcher shoves him in the back. Jack turns, shoves back. As the two men wrestles each other to the ground --
sukeforth		Josh Gibson. Oh boy can he hit.
rickey		No.
sukeforth		No? Rickey won't take the file; the answer is no.
sukeforth		Alright. Roy Campanella. Sukeforth holds it out; Rickey won't take it.
rickey		A heck of a player. But too sweet, they'll eat him alive.
sukeforth		 Satchel Paige then. Parrott enters carrying an armful of files.
rickey		Too old. We need a man with a future not a past. (holds up his own
sukeforth		He was court-martialed. A trouble maker. He argues with umpires. A quick temper is his reputation. Rickey is obviously keen on him.
sukeforth		Do you see?
rickey		I see he resents segregation. If he were white, we'd call it spirit!
attendant		Fill her up?
driver		Yes, sir. The attendant starts unscrewing caps on two 50-GALLON TANKS.
attendant		Where you all headed?
driver		Chicago. As the attendant shoves down a pump, starts filling, Jack steps off. He spots and heads for a restroom. White Men Only lettered on the door. The attendant roused as he sees.
attendant		Hey! Where you going, boy!?
jack		I'm going to the toilet.
attendant		Shit, boy, c'mon. You know you can't go in there. Jack does a slow burn, then suddenly strides toward the attendant. The air rife with tension.
jack		Take that hose out of the tank.
attendant		Huh?
jack		Take it out. We'll get our ninety- nine gallons of gas someplace else. The attendant blinks. He takes a look from Jack to up and down the deserted highway. No business in sight.
attendant		Okay, use it. But don't stay in there too long. Jack heads back. The Driver, the players, a bit stunned.
sukeforth		Are you Jackie Robinson?
jack		Excuse me?
rickey		A man needs a family relying on him. It insures he'll behave responsibly. Do you have a girl?
jack		I think so.
rickey		You think so? Jack looks to Sukeforth who smiles placidly. Back to Rickey.
jack		I don't make much money. Between the army and now baseball I've been away a lot. And Rae, Rachel, she wants to finish school. Considering all that, I say I think so.
rickey		Do you love her? Rachel?
jack		Yes, sir, very much.
rickey		Marry her. What? Rickey stands, walks to a window. Jack looks at Sukeforth who raises a hand as if to say: Give it a chance.
jack		Coach Sukeforth here said you were starting a new Negro League. That doesn't make sense to me.
jack		What's this about, Mr. Rickey?
rickey		This is about baseball. Rickey opens the shade. Sunlight floods in. Rickey follows it to the chalkboard, to the list of players under Montreal.
jack		Yes, sir. That's fine.
rickey		There is one condition. I have a pile of scouting reports. I know you can hit behind the runner, that you can read a pitch. The question is can you control your temper?
jack		My temper?
rickey		Yes your temper! Are you deaf?! Rickey furious, the avuncular old man gone. Jack sits there, fists now balled. Rickey to Sukeforth like he's not there:
sukeforth		He'll need to be. Rickey looks back to Jack who is as angry as he is confused.
rickey		I want to win! I want ballplayers who can win! Are you one of them?!
jack		Yes.
rickey		A black man in white baseball. Imagine the reaction. The vitriol. Rickey strides forward, gets in his face.
rickey		I want one who has the guts not to fight back! There are people who will not like this. They will do anything to get you to react. If you echo a curse with a curse, they will only hear yours. Follow a blow with a blow and they will say a Negro lost his temper; that the Negro does not belong. Your enemy will be out in force, but you can not meet him on his own low ground. We win with hitting, running and fielding, nothing else. We win if the world is convinced of two things: that you are a fine gentlemen and a great ballplayer. Like our Savior, you must have the guts to turn the other cheek. Jack considers Rickey. Rickey looks worn out.
jack		Mr. Rickey, you give me a uniform, you give me a number on my back, and I'll give you the guts.
rachel		Hello?
jack		Rae, I'm in Brooklyn.
rachel		Brooklyn? For what?
jack		I don't want to say on the phone. In fact, I'm not supposed to tell anyone. She can hear the tingle in his voice.
rachel		Jack?
jack		We've been tested you and me. Our loyalty, our faith. We've done everything the right way. Me trying to make money. You finishing school. Separated by the war, now by baseball. We don't owe the world a thing. Only each other. She's actually getting a little scared now.
rachel		Jack, what are you talking about? What happened?
jack		The Brooklyn Dodgers just signed me to play ball up in Montreal. It might lead to bigger things. To something wonderful.
rachel		What does it mean? For you and me?
jack		Rae. Will you marry me?
rachel		Absolutely. When?
jack		Now.
rachel		Did my mom look happy?
jack		Yes. They reach the door. Jack gets out a key to unlock it. Rachel looks nervous, steps back across the hall.
rachel		Did my gram look happy? Swinging the door open, he looks at her. The air charged.
jack		Everyone looked happy. I've never seen so many people looking happy.
rachel		Did Jack Robinson look happy?
jack		Too late. You already do. It's you and me, Rae.
rachel		Until the wheels fall off.
jack		It can wait one more night
rickey		Who's the best shortstop you ever saw?
smith		Rabbit Tavener.
rickey		Rabbit Tavener? And you call yourself a sports writer?
smith		Yes, a sentimental one. I'm from Detroit. He was the Tiger shortstop when I was a boy. How about you? Who's your best?
rickey		Pop Lloyd.
smith		Not Honus Wagner?
rickey		Wagner is number two. And Rabbit Tavener would not break my top 25. Where do you suppose Jackie Robinson will end up on that list?
smith		He won't break it. He doesn't have a shortstop's arm. Robinson belongs on second base.
rickey		Alright then, where would he rate at second?
smith		If he was playing now he'd be the best second baseman in the majors.
rickey		High praise. He'll have to be the best in the minor leagues first.
smith		What are you saying, Mr. Rickey?
rickey		I'm saying it's going to be a very interesting spring training. A lot of players are coming back from the war and with gas rationing over, we can train down in Florida again.
smith		Daytona Beach?
rickey		Those towns may as well be a million miles from Daytona.
smith		Live Oaks is 150 actually.
rickey		I spoke to the Daytona mayor. He assures me there'll be no trouble. But Rickey doesn't sound so sure. They consider each other.
smith		I'm a Democrat. Why do you ask?
rickey		I have a business proposition. What's your salary at the Courier?
smith		Fifty dollars a week.
rickey		I will pay you an additional fifty dollars a week plus expenses if you will attend spring training with Jackie Robinson. You will watch over him, help him to avoid the harm that could come if he were to do or say anything out of turn. You will act as his chauffeur, you will secure accommodations for him wherever the team may be, help him find restaurants, etc...
smith		What's in it for me? Besides the fifty dollars and a whole lot of aggravation?
rickey		Unprecedented access for any reportage you feel appropriate. What do you say, Mr. Smith?
smith		I say yes, sir. If a Negro is good enough to stop a Nazi bullet in France; he's good enough to stop a line drive at Yankee Stadium.
rickey		Ebbets Field actually, but yes, I agree. The world is ready.
speaker		As our former President Herbert Hoover remarked in his tribute to our national pastime: The rigid voluntary rules of right and wrong, as applied in baseball, are second only to religion in strengthening the morals of the American people.' Polite applause as the speaker steps off. The clapping more enthusiastic as the lights dim on all but an impromptu set: plantation house columns. Hoots as a BUTLER appears wearing satin knee breeches and a MONTREAL ROYALS jersey. He holds a ring like a lawn jockey, a WHITE MAN in BLACK FACE. The laughs get louder as he peers out with exaggerated wide eyes.
butler		Lordy, lordy, it's looking like da massa will be late dis ebning. As the LAUGHS from the audience subside, a sportswriter dressed as a COLONEL enters from stage right.
colonel		Robbie! Robbie!
butler		Yassuh, Massa Kunl. Here Ah is. Huge LAUGHS as he struts and dances his way over.
colonel		Jackie, you woolly headed rascal. How long yo' been in the family?
butler		Ebber since Massa Rickey done bots me from da Kansas City Monarchs.
colonel		 Rickey that no good carpetbagger! What could he be thinking! Huge LAUGHS from that one. Two people enjoying it we'll recognize later as HERB PENNOCK and BOB COOKE.
butler		Ah came near bein' killed last night, Kunl.
colonel		How's that, Jackie boy?
butler		Ah was comin' up a dark street and three men was behind me. And they tried to do me with a baseball bat.
colonel		You don't say?
butler		Yes, suh. Ah recognized one of dem. Ah'm gonna hab him arrested.
colonel		But I thought you said it was dark?
butler		It was. But I know he played for the Philadelphia Baseball Club. On account of he struck at me three times and never hit me once. That brings the house down. Check out their laughing faces.
mallie		You knock the cover off that ball.
jack		I will, Mama. Mallie hugs Jack and then kisses Rachel.
mallie		Look after each other.
rachel		We will. She reaches in her bag, brings out a cardboard SHOEBOX; it's ever so slightly greasy at the bottom.
mallie		Take this. It's chicken.
jack		They have food on the plane, Mama.
mallie		You never know what might happen. I don't want you getting there starving and too weak to hit. Rachel gives Jack a subtle but emphatic look: No.
jack		I couldn't tell her no.
rachel		I know she means well; I just don't want to be seen eating chicken out of a box like some country bumpkin. Jack runs his hand over her coat.
jack		No one's going to mistake you for a bumpkin in this.
rachel		Well, they'll know I belong on that plane or wherever I happen to be.
jack		The flight to Pensacola leaves in an hour... You okay?
rachel		I've just never seen one before.
jack		 We're not in Pasadena anymore. A sudden momentum carries her forward.
jack		Honey... Rae -- He takes a step after her, stops as she disappears inside. Jack unsure what to do. He looks around. Looks back. He doesn't need this right now.
cook		You folks can't sit here.
jack		Excuse me?
cook		It's white only. Jack looking to Rachel; it's equanimity time. Not easy.
cook		I'll sell you some sandwiches. But you gotta take em to go. Jack looks to the busboy, back to the cook.
jack		No. You hang onto those. Mastering himself, Jack slides out. Drilling the cook with a look, he offers his hand to Rachel as she slides out as well.
jack		Just a hop to Daytona now. As Rachel nods, an AIRLINE EMPLOYEE boards, MISS BISHOP. She makes her way over. She spots who she's looking for.
miss bishop		Jack Robinson? Come with me. She starts away without explaining, looks back at them a bit impatiently.
miss bishop		Come on now. Both of you.
jack		When's the next flight?
jack		Look, I'm with the Brooklyn Dodger organization. I've got to get down to Daytona. I'm supposed to report to spring training in the morning.
jack		You gave away our seats! Get us back on that plane! Miss Bishop picks up a PHONE, holds it in Jack's face.
jack		Mama knew... He holds it out to Rachel. She slides over, takes it, takes a bite as well, smiles at him. He smiles back.
rachel		It's good.
reese stanky		I got it! I got it! I got it! I got it! They both back off at the last second and it drops to the ground between them. Durocher chuckles.
durocher		That's what spring training's for, boys! Sort out our differences! He hits another. This time to the outfield where veteran DIXIE WALKER gives chase, finally gives up on it.
durocher		C'mon, Dixie, get after it!
durocher		I'm gonna squeeze one more year out of that worn out body of yours!
walker		If you could, skipper, my wife would sure appreciate it!
durocher		Keeping the women happy! That's what it's all about!
rickey		How are they looking, Leo?
durocher		Rusty, Mr. Rickey. But we'll get em oiled up and ready in no time. You find your lost sheep yet? Troubled, Rickey shakes his head no'. As he does, Harold Parrot hurries over. He's the Dodgers travelling secretary.
parrott		Jackie Robinson's on a bus leaving Pensacola.
rickey		A bus? Harold, how in blazes did he end up on a bus?! BOB BRAGAN, in his catching gear, passing by with pitchers RALPH BRANCA and KIRBY HIGBE. Higbe asides to Bragan:
higbe		Why don't they just put him on a watermelon truck?
branca		What's the matter with you guys?
bragan		Not a thing, Branca, but we ain't just two pretty faces either.
smith		Jackie Robinson... Mr. Rickey sent me to meet you. Wendell Smith. Pittsburgh Courier. I'm going to be your Boswell.
jack		My who?
smith		Your chronicler, your advance man. Hell, even your chauffeur.  Mrs. Robinson.
rachel		It's Rachel.
smith		Man, you two look wiped out.
smith		You ever been down South before, Rachel?
rachel		First time. We have our problems in Pasadena, but not like this.
smith		Mr. Rickey says we follow the law. If Jim Crow and the state of Florida say Negroes do this and that, then we do this and that.
smith		Joe and Duff Harris live here. He gets out the black vote, does a lot of good for colored folks.
smith		Brooklyn plays downtown; Montreal a few blocks from here. You'll stay with the Harrises except for a few days at the end of the week. The whole Dodger organization is going to Sanford, about 45 minute away. You'll stay here though, Rachel.
rachel		Where are the other wives staying?
smith		There are no other wives. You're the only one Mr. Rickey allowed to spring training. As the HARRISES step out on the porch, wave hello...
rachel		I'm sure. Thank you. As Jack enters, Mrs. Harris starts back down.
jack		It's a joke, right?
rachel		I like it. The love nest. She kisses him. He's starting to like it, too.
rachel		Remind me dinner's at five.
jack		I'll try to remember... As the kisses become more urgent...
rickey		Listen to this, Harold. Whenever I hear a white man - yours truly - broadcasting what a Moses he is to the Negro race, then I know the latter needs a bodyguard. (Parrott tries to
rickey		The minor league commissioner of baseball said that! I pay part of his salary! You wouldn't stab me in the back like this, would you?
rickey		Why didn't you say so?!
reese		That's him, huh?
stanky		Take a wild guess. Flash bulbs go off in Jack's face. Questions like punches. Shouts of Jackie' and then...
reporter one		Jackie, do you think you can make it with these white boys? Jack looks off to where Smith watches, back to the reporter. See the questions slow. He answers with measure.
jack		Sure, I had no problem with white men in the service or at UCLA.
reporter two		What'll you do if one of these pitchers throws at your head?
reporter three		Jack, what's your natural position?
robinson		I've been playing shortstop.
reporter three		Are you after Pee Wee Reese's job?
reporter one		Is this about politics?
jack		It's about getting paid. Jack doing beautifully. Smith breathes a sigh of relief...
walker		He's fine with me, so long as you keep him up in Montreal.
hopper		Here comes the old man to save him. They watch as Rickey pulls Jack from the press. He leads Jack directly toward Hopper. As Walker excuses himself...
walker		Good luck, Hop...
rickey		Clay, I'd like you to meet Jackie Robinson. Jackie, Clay Hopper, manager of the Montreal Royals. Hopper shakes his hand as they exchange greetings.
hopper		We ain't doing much today. Just throwing the ball around and hitting a few. Why don't you toss a few with those fellas over there?
hopper		Meet Jackie Robinson.
higbe		Hey, Rook! Did you hear about the redneck shortstop?
bragan		He thought the last two words of the National Anthem were Play Ball! Jack forces a smile, but the joke comes off a bit harsh. And they seem like they're laughing at him as...
higbe		How about the shortstop making all the errors, tried to kill himself by jumping out on the highway?
bragan		A bus just missed him. Drove right between his legs! As the bus passes by, Jack sees the impassive faces of Dixie Walker, Reiser, Stanky, Pee Wee Reese and finally 20-year-old Branca. Branca smiles, offers an awkward little wave.
smith		Between his legs, good one. He must've read a joke book. If he can read. Jack just gets in the car. Smith sighs, drum rolls the hood of the Buick.
jack		I'm just a ballplayer, Mr. Brock.
jack		No thank you, sir, I don't drink.
smith		I'll have one. I'm a stereotypical reporter through and through.
jack		Mr. Brock, do you have a desk? I'd like to get a letter to my wife.
hopper		He's getting by on a quick release, but his arm's too weak for short. Second base is his spot.
rickey		I agree. And I'll state another obvious, Clay, I need the players to act like gentlemen around him.
hopper		Uh huh.
rickey		To treat him as they would any other teammate.
hopper		Uh huh.
rickey		To be natural, to impose no restrictions on themselves. To all work together in harmony. WHACK! The hit & run is on. The man on first runs on the pitch as a LOW LINE DRIVE shoots for the gap between 1st and 2nd. Robinson turns himself inside out to dive on his belly and catch it before it hits the ground. He spins himself around, pivots on a knee to throw the runner out before he can get back to first.   Rickey is astounded.
rickey		That was superhuman.
rickey		Clay, I realize that attitude is part of your heritage; that you practically nursed race prejudice at your mother's breast, so I will let it pass. But I will add this: you can manage Robinson fairly and correctly or you can be unemployed. They both look over as Jack comes off the field toward them.
hopper		Attaboy, Jackie! Way to turn two!
smith		Okay as far as I can see. A MIDDLE-AGED WHITE MAN, LUTHER exits the car and starts toward them.
smith		Who is it you're looking for?
smith		He's asleep. Maybe you better come back in the morning.
rickey's voice		Yes, Wendell, what is it?
rickey		I see... Yes, I understand. Wake him up and get him out of there. Put him in the car and start driving for Daytona Beach. Now. And, Wendell, under no circumstance tell him what this is about. I do not want him to get it in his head to stay there and fight.
jack		I was just getting loose. Smith sticks his head in the door.
smith		Don't just sit there. Pack your duds. We're blowin'. A phone RINGS somewhere. They hear Brock answer, then:
smith's voice		Yes, Mr. Rickey, I'm with him now... We're pulling out for Daytona in five minutes, soon as he gets his bag packed... Yes, yes, it's just one of those things. One of those things.' As Jack's head hangs a little lower.
jack		What the hell, Wendell?!
jack		Why didn't you say so?
smith		Mr. Rickey was afraid you wouldn't leave, that you would fight. As it becomes clear, Jack starts to LAUGH.
smith		What the hell are you laughing at?
jack		I thought you woke me because I was cut from the team. Jack LAUGHS harder. Wendell LAUGHS as well. As it fades, Jack looks back over his shoulder. Jesus...
mother		Ed! You stay where I can see you! 13-year old ED CHARLES turns, waves his baseball glove over his head so she can see him. Then to no one in particular:
ed		I'm thirteen years old. WHITE PEOPLE enter at several gates around them.
rickey		I've spoken to the mayor. I've explained how much money we'll spend in Daytona. But still, when this fine young Negro man steps on that field today, he and the Dodgers will technically be breaking the law. A law which says white and black players cannot enjoy the same field at the same time. Does that make sense to you? Does Jim Crow make any sense when placed against the words of the United States Constitution? When placed against the word of God? POP OUT to reveal he sits beside the DODGER BATBOY, so short his feet don't touch the ground. Rickey offers his peanut bag. As the batboy takes one...
rickey		I'll tell you, it does not make sense to me.
pa announcer		Now batting the second baseman -- Jackie Robinson! Jack wincing as he steps forward to both cheers and boos from the white sections. As a go home, coon' drifts over -- A BIG OVATION from the black section in right drowns it out.
spectator one		Come on, black boy, you can make the grade!
spectator two		They're giving you a chance! Do something about it! Jack heartened at the words. Concentrates as Higbe's first pitch is fired. High and tight, Jack jerks out of the way.
ed charles		The 13-year-old holding his hands together in prayer.
ed		Please, God, let Jackie show them what we can do.
home plate		Here comes the next pitch. Even tighter. Jack nearly hit.
umpire		Ball two! Jack glaring, crowds the plate more. Bragan shows 1, taps his right thigh signalling outside. Jack watches it sail, doesn't bite. The umpire: Ball Three! Higbe's fun slipping away as he can't find the strike zone.
higbe		Come on, Rook! Ain't you gonna swing at something?! Jack takes a practice swing, waits as Bragan sets up right over the plate. Here comes the pitch. Low. Ball four!
smith		It's just a walk.
rachel		Who can blame them?
higbe		Looks ill-tempered over to first where Jack gives the same look back as he sidesteps an enormous, defiant lead off the bag. Higbe incredulous. Did he just do that?
rickey		Watching from a seat behind third.
rickey		Thataway, Jackie! Thataway!
higbe		Hell! You're supposed to go back to third when I step off! Don't you know nothing?! He throws over. Jack back to the bag. Higbe gets the ball back, looks in. Jack bouncing, pounding off third. His movements carry violence within them. Like a piston exploding in an engine. Higbe into his motion, stops his delivery, accidentally drops the ball to the ground. The umpire signals BALK, points Jack home. Higbe is furious.
mother		I don't understand. What happened?
ed		It's a balk, Mama. The pitcher can't start toward home and then stop. Jackie scores.
mother		But he didn't do anything.
ed		Oh, mama, yes he did, he discombobulated the man.
dugout		Durocher looks to Branca, impressed.
durocher		He didn't come to play; he came to kill. Durocher starts out to the mound to talk to Higbe.
dixie walker		Watching from right field, the black crowd still cheering. He walks over toward the open bullpen where Casey stands.
walker		This really how it's gonna be some day? Baseball?
policeman		Git offa this field now!
jack		What!? Why?
policeman		It's against the law is why. No niggers don't play with no white boys. Git off or go to jail. Jack shrugs the policeman's hand off his shoulder. That sends him reaching for his nightstick and -- Sukeforth is there to get between them.
jack		You swing that thing you better hit me between the eyes with it.
policeman		Is that so? The CROWD BOOING. The black section especially.
hopper		 Hey, hold on, what'd he do wrong?
policeman		We ain't havin' Nigras mix with white boys in this town. Ya'll ain't up-states now; they gotta stay separate. Brooklyn Dodgers ain't changing our way of living. Where are you all from anyhow?
hopper		Greenwood, Mississippi.
policeman		Hell, man, you oughta know better.  Now tell your Nigra I said to git. You think I'm foolin'? Hopper looks desperately to Jack who just stands there.
rachel's voice		What did you do?
jack		I said okay, Skipper, tell him... Ah'm a-gittin'. Sho'nuff, ah is.
rachel		You didn't?
jack		I did. Then I took a long shower. We lost 2 to 1. She takes a few exaggerated steps to amuse him.
rachel		Ah'm a-gittin', ah'm a gittin'. He laughs, takes her hand. He's going to kiss her.
jack		You're not getting away from me.
jack		Get back, Rae. Go back. Cracker stops square across from him. Jack's fists balled.
cracker		I want you to know something.
jack		Yeah, what's that?
cracker		I want you to know I'm pulling for you to make good. And a lot of folks here feel the same way. If a man's got the goods, he deserves a fair chance. That's all.  Ma'am. As Cracker walks away... Rachel takes Jack's hand.
jack		You wanted to see me, Mr. Rickey? Rickey nods, consider the field a moment.
rickey		Bermuda grass grows so well here. I wish we could get it to grow like this in Brooklyn.
jack		I like the way it smells when they mow it.
rickey		Me, too. Rickey consider the field a moment, then Jack.
rickey		Jackie, it's my pleasure to tell you that you've earned a spot on the Montreal Royals. When they head north Tuesday for opening day against Jersey City, you'll be on the train. Jack trying to hold down his excitement.
jack		I won't let you down.
rickey		I know that.
jack		If you don't mind, I've got to go tell my wife.
rickey		Give her my regards. Jack about to head off when he looks back..
jack		Why are you doing this, Mr. Rickey?
rickey		I'm an opportunist. With you and the Negro players I hope to bring up next year I'll put together a team that can win the World Series. And the World Series means money. Jack studies him a beat, not quite buying it.
rickey		Don't you believe that?
jack		I don't think what I believe is important. Only what I do.
rickey		Agreed. Therefore, run the bases like the Devil himself.
train tracks		The train picks up speed. The boys start to run. Arms pumping, feet flying. One boy drops off. Then the other. But Ed still runs. Chasing after that train carrying Jackie Robinson. Finally, he stops, heaving for breath, watching the train disappear around the bend. A lonely beat. Then -- Ed gets down on his hands and knees. He sets his ear on the rail, closes his eyes. A thrum comes off the rail. A huge smile spreads. He straightens, shouts back to his friends:
crowd voice		Come on, Jackie, this fella can't pitch! Speaking of the pitch, here it comes. Jack tops a WEAK GROUNDER to short. As he's thrown out by a mile...
smith		You okay?
rachel		I think I might be sick.
smith		I'd be sick at a swing like that, too.
older woman		Are you alright, honey?
rachel		I'm sick. I don't know why. The older woman rolls off a piece of paper towel for her.
older woman		When did you have your monthly last?
rachel		I'm late.
older woman		It may be that you're pregnant. The older woman offers a little smile, leaves her there. INSERT: Third Inning.
smith		Come on, Jackie. Come on, batter.
hopper		I'll be damned...
rachel		Oh, Jack... Oh Jack...
rachel		Jack! Jack! INSERT: November 18, 1946. Pasadena, California. She is in labor and we are in Huntington Memorial Hospital. A CRY. The DOCTOR holds up a slick, wailing NEWBORN.
doctor		It's a boy. As Rachel holds out her arms for him...
jack		My daddy left. He left us flat in Cairo, Georgia. I was only six months older than you are now. I don't remember him. Nothing good, nothing bad. Nothing.
miller		As all of us know a young Negro second baseman played north of the border last season... INSERT: Brooklyn YMCA. February 5, 1947. In back: TWO DEACONS in the back whisper over a SPORTS PAGE.
deacon one		Look here what he did.
deacon two		Last season doesn't matter. The International League, it doesn't matter. What matters is this year. What matters is Brooklyn.
deacon one		Shhh... Here he comes. As Herbert Miller introduces...
miller		I present the general manager of the Brooklyn Dodger baseball club, Mr. Branch Rickey! Warm APPLAUSE as Rickey steps up. As it settles...
rickey		Good evening. I have something very important to talk with you about tonight. Something that will require courage from all of us.
rickey		He may stay there or he may be brought to Brooklyn. But if Jackie does come up to the Dodgers, the biggest threat to his success, the one enemy most likely to ruin that success, is the Negro people themselves! There is shocked silence in the room. Rickey notices a group of KIDS watching from a raised running track, soldiers on:
rickey		I say it as cruelly as I can to make you all realize the weight of responsibility that is not only on myself and the Dodgers, but on Negroes everywhere. For on the day Jackie enters the National League, if he does, I have no doubt every one of you will form parades and welcoming committees. You'll strut. You'll wear badges. You'll hold Jackie Robinson days and Jackie Robinson nights. You'll get drunk, fight and be arrested. This is too much. People are slackjawed. Rickey powers on.
rickey		You'll wine and dine him until he is fat and futile. You'll symbolize his importance into a national comedy and yes, a tragedy! So let me tell you this!  If any group or segment of Negro society uses the advancement of Jackie Robinson in baseball as a triumph of race over race, I will regret the day I ever signed him to a contract, and I will personally see that baseball is never so abused and misrepresented again! Is he done? An embarrassed smattering of applause. Mostly shock and stares. As Rickey stands there uncomfortably...
miller		I question your bedside manner, Mr. Rickey, but they've agreed to set up a committee of self-policing. We'll call it the 'Don't Spoil Jackie's Chances' campaign.
rickey		Thank you, Mr. Miller. I'm sorry; the spotlight will be on us all.
durocher		Yeah?
rickey's voice		Hello, Leo, what are you doing?
durocher		I'm bowling. Wait, I'm snowshoeing in the Alps. I'm trying to sleep, Mr. Rickey. It's still dark out.
rickey		Another spring training is upon us. In Panama. I need to know your attitude toward Jackie Robinson.
durocher		I don't got an attitude toward him. The girl rolls over to look at him. She is the actress LORRAINE DAY and she is stunning. As Durocher regards her...
rickey		Eight times in the Bible we're told to love our neighbor. It's one of God's most repeated commands.
durocher		I don't know much about the Bible.
rickey		If by nice you mean soft, no, not particularly.
durocher		Good. He can't afford to be. Nice guys finish last.
rickey		So you have no objections to him?
durocher		None whatsoever. Can I go back to sleep now?
rickey		Yes. Oh -- and Leo?
durocher		What?
rickey		The Bible says a thing or two about adultery as well.
durocher		I'm sure it's got a lot to say about a lot. Good night. Durocher hangs up the phone, looks to her.
rachel		Promise me you'll write.
jack		When did I ever not write?
rachel		I want you to know I'm there for you. Even if it's words on paper. He's sees she's raw, takes her in his arms with the baby.
jack		Rae, you're in my heart. She sighs, rests her head on his shoulder.
rachel		You're getting close now. The closer you get, the worse they'll be. Don't let them get to you.
jack		I will not. God built me to last. He kisses her. She kisses him back.
rachel		See you in Brooklyn in eight weeks.
jack		It might be Montreal. A certainty grips her. She passes it on to him.
rachel		It's going to be Brooklyn. I know it is. Power in her words. He nods, looks off toward the taxi.
durocher		It's a pipe dream, Mr. Rickey.
rickey		Pipe dream? What do you mean by pipe dream?
durocher		I mean it ain't gonna happen. The Dodgers are never gonna demand Robinson be brought up from Montreal. Ball players are conservative.
rickey		A team full of tough war veterans? Immigrants' sons? Boys from impoverished parts of the country?
durocher		It - ain't - gonna - happen.
rickey		You really believe they won't accept him? Once they see how he plays, how he can help them win.
durocher		I'm not saying they won't accept him: I'm saying they won't ask for him. I'm saying Robinson's good medicine, but they're not gonna like the taste. I'm saying bend over, boys, and get ready, this one might hurt a little.
bragan		Why do you think Rickey's got us playing spring games in Panama?
higbe		We, the undersigned Brooklyn Dodgers will not play ball on the same field as Jackie Robinson. Higbe signs it. He hands the pen to Bragan who adds his own name. Casey signs with a flourish. Casey holds out the pen to Walker who doesn't take it right away. An odd beat.
casey		If you wanna make your mark, Dixie, we can witness it. Everyone laughs; it loosens Walker up enough to sign.
stanky's voice		C'mon in!
stanky's room		The boys enter. Eddie Stanky sits in a chair stripped to the waist, soaking his right elbow in a BUCKET OF ICE.
stanky		What's goin' on?
higbe		Got a petition goin' on, Stank.
stanky		Oh... Did Pee Wee sign it?
higbe		Ain't asked him yet. What difference does it make?
stanky		None, just wonderin'.
reese		Look, it's like this. I got a wife, a baby, and I got no money. I don't want to step in anything.
walker		What if they put him at shortstop?
higbe		 The hell he does!
walker		He does not have the ice water in his veins for big league baseball.
furillo		Give me the pen. Higbe grins, hands it over. As Furillo signs...
durocher		Yes, Mr. Rickey.
rickey's voice		Have our friends in the press gone to sleep yet?
durocher		We are the only people awake on this entire isthmus, Mr. Rickey.
rickey's voice		A deliberate violation of the law, needs a little show of force. I leave it to you. Good night, Leo.
durocher		Wake up, ladies! Wake the Hell up!  It's come to my attention that some of you fellas don't want to play with Robinson. That you even got a petition drawn up that you're all gonna sign. Well boys, you know what you can do with your petition?
walker		C'mon, Leo...
durocher		Come on what?!
walker		Ball players gotta live together, shower together, it's not right to force him on us. Besides, I own a hardware store back home and I --
durocher		Screw your hardware store, Dix! And if you don't like it, screw you! Mr. Rickey'll be happy to make other arrangements for you. Durocher suddenly marches to Higbe, looks like he's going to belt him. As Higbe gulps, Durocher turns to the team.
durocher		I don't care if he's yellow or black or has stripes like a zebra, if Robinson can help us win, and everything I've seen says he can, then he's gonna play on this ball club. Like it, lump it, make your mind up to it because he's coming! And think about this when your heads hit the pillow, he's only the first, boys, only the first. More are coming right behind him. They have talent and they wanna play! He lets that sink a moment.
durocher		Yes, sir, they're gonna come diving and scratching. So I'd forget your petition and worry about the field. Because unless you fellas pay a little more attention to your work, they are going to run you right out of the ball park! A petition?  Are you ballplayers or lawyers? As he marches past them and through the doors...
sukeforth		Play first base.
sukeforth		Well, it's like this. Brooklyn's got a solid second baseman. And they got Pee Wee Reese at short. But first base is up for grabs. Are you catching my drift?
sukeforth		Mr. Rickey said he wants you playing conspicuous baseball!
sukeforth		Conspicuous.
rickey		Bragan, most of your teammates have recanted on this petition nonsense. Are you really here to tell me you don't want to play with Robinson?
bragan		Yes, Sir. My friends back in Birmingham would never forgive me.
rickey		And your friends here in Brooklyn?  Then I will accommodate you. If you give me your word that you will try your very best for this team until I can work out a trade. That gets Bragan's goat. He jumps up, really mad.
bragan		Do you think I would quit on anyone?! I don't quit.
rickey		Only on yourself apparently. You can go, Bragan.
rickey		I received your letter, Dixie.
walker		I'm keeping my reasons private. Hope you can respect that, sir.
rickey		I realize, Dixie, that you have a Southern upbringing, that you would have to subordinate your feelings for the welfare of this venture. I for one would deeply appreciate it. I think we can all learn something.
walker		What I have, Mr. Rickey, is a hardware store back home. It's called Dixie Walker's. Folks don't come because I have the lowest prices, they come because it's called Dixie Walker's. Understand? And I make as much money owning that store as I do playing for you.
rickey		Is that what you're you afraid of?  Bragan's a third-stringer, but you bat clean-up. You're popular in Brooklyn. Children look up to you!
walker		You got my letter; can I go?
rickey		I'll start looking for a trade or a sale. But it won't happen until I get value in return. Until then I expect you to drive in runs.
jack		You again. Smith leans back, blinks.
smith		That's right. Me again. Something wrong with that, Jack?
jack		Come on. Jack continues past. As Smith follows...
smith		They can't keep you on Montreal for long. After these exhibition games, they've got to bring you up.
jack		Do I have to entertain you? More silence, then...
smith		You ever wonder why I sit out in right field with my typewriter on my knees? Does that ever cross your mind? Jack stares out the passenger window, not in the mood. As he looks up at some of the taller buildings they pass...
smith		It's because Negro reporters aren't allowed in the press box. Jack doesn't answer, doesn't look over. Finally Smith starts talking to himself. Pretending to be Jack.
smith		Why I'm from Detroit, Jack.
smith		My daddy used to work at Fair Lane. That was Mr. Ford's estate. My daddy was Mr. Henry Ford's cook.
smith		Cooked for him for years, but never once broke bread with him. I'd go to work with daddy sometimes. Play baseball out on the lawn with Mr. Ford's grandchildren. We all had a real good time. But it was understood, if they got tired of playing ball and moved inside to the bowling alley or swimming pool, I was not invited or allowed. The grass was as far as I got. So guess what? You're not the only one with something at stake here.
jack		 If I start talking, will you stop?
smith		I'd be happy to. Smith stops at a red light.
jack		I apologize. You've been there for me through this more than anyone besides Rae and Mr. Rickey. But I guess that's what bothers me.
smith		How do you mean?
jack		I don't like needing someone to be there for me. I don't like needing anyone but myself. I never have.
smith		You are a hard case, Jack Robinson. Is it okay if I keep driving you or should I let you out so you can walk? Jack bursts out laughing. So does Smith.
rickey		Branch Rickey cannot afford to upset team chemistry and so the only thing keeping Robinson off the Dodgers now, plainly, is the attitude of the players.
rickey		If it softens at the sight of Jackie's skills, he'll join the club some time between April 10 and April 15. Otherwise, Robinson will spend the year back in Montreal.  For the love of Pete, he batted .625 in the exhibition games against them, us, them -- Against us! Judas Priest! Rickey flummoxed as the phone RINGS from the outer office.
parrott		Maybe you could have Durocher hold a press conference. Demand that he get Robinson on his team.
rickey		Durocher. Of course, he's my ace in the hole. Very good, Harold. The phone still rings. Rickey looks to his open door.
rickey		Jane Ann! Are you out there? Grumbling, brambly eyebrows twitching, he makes the mistake of answering his own phone.
happy		Branch, how are you?
rickey		Fine. What can I do for you, Happy?
happy		Branch, how would you feel about losing Durocher for a year? Rickey switches the phone from one ear to the other.
rickey		I'm sorry, Happy, I thought you said lose Durocher for a year.
happy		Yes. He was seen in Havana with known gamblers.
rickey		Anyone who sets foot in Havana is seen with known gamblers.
happy		It's not just one thing, it's an accumulation. I received notice today from the Catholic Youth Organization. Vowing a ban on baseball unless Durocher is punished for his moral looseness.
rickey		You're joking.
happy		It's this business with the actress in California. She's recently divorced and Durocher is the cause. They may even be illegally married.
rickey		Now I'm sure you're joking. Happy checks his nails, returns his hand to the MANICURIST.
happy		I wish I were. The CYO buy a lot of tickets, Branch. They draw a lot of water and I can't afford to ruffle their feathers. Am I mixing metaphors there?
rickey		You know very well my organization is about to enter a tempest. I need Durocher at the rudder. He's the only man who can handle this much trouble, who loves it in fact. You're chopping off my right hand!
happy		I have no choice. I'm going to have to sit your manager, Branch. Leo Durocher is suspended from baseball for a year.
rickey		You can't do that! Happy, you son of a bitch! DIAL TONE. Rickey steadies himself, looks to Parrott.
rickey		Trouble ahead, Harold. Trouble.
rickey		Jane Ann, come in here.  Harold! Parrott sticks his head out from an office down the hall.
rickey		Get some employees up here!
rickey		Harold, telegram the press. Say this: The Brooklyn Dodgers today purchased the contract of Jackie Robinson from the Montreal Royals. He will report immediately. As Jack takes it in, he's the only one not smiling.
rachel		Hello?
jack's voice		Rae, I'm in Brooklyn. Brooklyn... Rachel lets out a triumphant WHOOP!
rachel		What did I tell you?
rachel		I love you... As he closes his eyes, absorbs it...
reese		Opening day nerves. Doing my stomach something awful. Jack nods in commiseration. It's awkward between them. A RUMBLE as a GARBAGE TRUCK goes by.
reese		There goes another one.
reese		Know when I first heard of you?
jack		No I don't.
reese		On a troop transport, coming back from Guam. A sailor heard it on the radio, told me the Dodgers had signed a Negro player. I said that was fine by me. Then he said the guy was a shortstop. Least you were then. That got me thinking. Thinking gets me scared. Jack smiles, hefts his bottle of Pepto.
jack		Black, white, we're both pink today, huh?
reese		 Of garbage trucks? Terrified.
hermanski		I'm Hermanski. Welcome to Brooklyn.
branca		Hey, man. Ralph Branca. Last, but not least, Spider Jorgensen, his Montreal teammate.
jorgensen		We made it, Jack, huh? Good luck. That's it. Everyone else is too busy to come over. As Jack scans for a locker with his name on it, BABE HAMBURGER, the clubhouse manager, steps over.
babe		You're looking for your locker, huh, kid? Follow me. They walk over to a hook on the wall. A uniform hangs from it. A FOLDING CHAIR below.
stanky		You're putting on that uniform, it means you're on my team. But before I play with you I want you to know how I feel about it. I want you to know I don't like it. I want you to know I don't like you. Jack regards him. Stanky doesn't flinch. Maybe he should.
jack		That's fine. That's how I prefer it. Right out in the open.
vendor		C'mon, Brooklyn! Get your Harry M. Stevens special here! As he hands one over, gets his .20 cents in return. Then:
rachel		Okay, okay, that's good. As Jackie's eyes find hers...
everett mccooey		O'er the land of the free! And the home of the brave!
bragan		You're crazy standing that close to him.
branca		What do you mean?
branca		You got a serious problem, Bragan, you know that?
bragan		Really? I don't see it.
rickey		Opening day, Harold. The world is all future and no past.
parrot		A blank page, sir.
barber		One out in the bottom of the first. Headed toward the plate for his first big league at bat is Dodger rookie Jackie Robinson. Jackie is very definitely brunette.
fan		We're with you, Jackie!
barber's voice		Sain looking in. When he's got that fastball working, he can toss a lamb chop past a hungry wolf. The BRAVES CATCHER signals 1'. Here come the pitch. CRACK! It's down the third base line. The THIRD BASEMAN is going to need every ounce of his arm as he fields it at the line, throw across his body to -- FIRST. Where Jack's foot hits the bag an instant before the ball smacks into the first baseman's mitt.
umpire		You're out! Jack can't believe it. As he trots toward the dugout he looks at the umpire who looks back: I dare you to complain.
stands		As the Brooklyn faithful BOO the call, Rachel and Smith watch Jack head decisively toward the dugout. He was safe. Rickey sits down closer to the dugout.
rickey		It's a game of inches, Jackie!
parrott		Get some glasses, ump!
shotton		Yeah, it's a shame about Leo.
rickey		Inevitable I suppose. I asked him if she was worth it and he said yes. How's the retirement?
rickey		Is that so?
shotton		When I took off that Cleveland uniform two years ago, I promised the Mrs. I'd never put on another uniform again. Roses look great and I sleep a whole lot better.
shotton		Baseball's the only life for an old pepper pot like me, but I promised my wife, Branch.
rickey		You promised her you wouldn't put on another uniform. You didn't promise her you wouldn't manage. Wear a suit and tie; Connie Mack still does.
rickey		My car's parked right out front. Harold will show you where. Now what do you say?
shotton		Men, I don't have much to say. Just, don't be afraid of old Burt Shotton as a manager. You can win the pennant in spite of me. I can not possibly hurt you. The Dodgers trade looks. Not exactly inspirational. As Shotton heads out he pauses by Jack.
shotton		Are you Robinson?
cooke		Mark my words and circle this date. Negroes are going to run the white man straight out of baseball. I'm not prejudiced; it's physiological. They have a longer heel bone. Gives em an unfair speed advantage.
another reporter		Was that because his heels are longer, Bob?! As everyone cracks up, everyone but Bob...
jack		I'm not complaining, I just, I don't know what they want.
owner		I'm Lawson Bowman, Jack, the owner of this joint. How's the steak?
jack		I'm not sure yet. It looks good.
rachel		You're lucky you're a boy. DOORWAY - Dressed to go, Rachel holding the baby, looking anxiously out on the street. Suddenly, ALICE the baby-sitter is there. Here she comes up the steps, opens the door.
alice		Sorry I'm late. Class ran long.
rachel		It's okay. Rachel gently hands the baby over.
rachel		It's so cold and raw out, I don't want him getting sick at the game.
alice		He'll be nice and warm here.
rachel		 I'm going to be late. She kisses him goodbye, frowns as she heads outside --
chapman's voice		Hey! Hey you black Nigger! Jack looks to the visitor's dugout where the Phillies Alabama- born manager BEN CHAPMAN stands at the top of the steps.
chapman		Why don't you go back to the cotton fields where you belong!
chapman		Or did you swing your way out of the jungle?! Bring me a banana!
barber		Chapman the Phillies manager up on the top step, seems to be chirping something out to Robinson. Chapman a hothead during his playing days with the Yankees.
rickey		What's he saying?
chapman		Bojangles! You sure can dance, snowflake!
stanky		On first, mouth hanging open. Almost forgets to take a lead. It's an instant Rorschach test.
dodger dugout		Shotton and the players look stricken. Even Walker doesn't quite know what to make of it. No one enjoys it, but Higbe.
stands		CONCESSION MEN walk closer to listen. The fans range from horrified to some mildly pleased. Rachel looks stricken.
jack		A fastball inside. He leaps back again. This one was even closer to hitting him. As Jack glares at Dutch...
umpire		Ball two!
chapman's voice		Hey, black boy! Hey, shoe shine!
chapman		You like white girls?! Huh?! Which one of them Dodger boys' wives are you climbing on tonight?! Chapman looks toward...
dodger dugout		They don't like that one.
jack		Grips the bat. Watches for the next pitch with bloody mindedness. He hacks at it, lofts a routine fly into left. He's about halfway down to first when the left fielder catches it and Jack can mercifully return to the dugout.
rachel		 Look at me, baby. Look at me. Finally, Jack glances up to her. She offers her eyes: I'm with you. He looks away. Her witnessing makes it worse.
infield		Spider Jorgensen takes a lead off first. At the plate, Stanky lines a single to right. Jorgensen holds at second.
jack		Steps to the batter's box, starts digging in that back foot.
visitor's dugout		As Chapman emerges with his two bench players.
chapman		Hey, Pee Wee! Dixie! What's this Nigger doing for you all to let him drink from the same water fountain as you?! I hope it's worth it!
jack		Waiting for the pitch. Takes a mighty swing -- CRACKS a towering POP-UP between home plate and the mound. Dutch watches his catcher Seminick settle under it. Waiting.
dutch		Hey, is that a home run!?
seminick		Yeah! If you're playing in an elevator shaft! Jack veers off the first baseline. Heads for the dugout.
chapman		You don't belong! Look in a mirror! This is a white man's game. Get it through your thick monkey skull! Jack stops short looks at him. Chapman stands his ground.
rickey		Stands, watches. Praying this doesn't go south. As Jack finally continues on, Rickey closes his eyes in relief.
rachel		Sick for her husband.
the dugout		Jack stalks down past the team. No one looks at him. Bragan is ashamed. Dixie tries to look disinterested. Stanky and Reese exchange a helpless glance as Jack continues into:
jack		To hell with this. The next white son of a bitch who opens his mouth, I'll smash his goddamn teeth in. Rickey stands there until finally, opening his mouth...
rickey		You can't, Jackie. You know it.
jack		I'm supposed to let this go on?
rickey		These men have to live with
jack		I have to live with myself, too! And right now I'm living a sermon out there. I'm through with it! Jack is at the end of his rope. All Rickey has are words.
rickey		You don't matter right now, Jack. You're in this thing. You don't have the right to pull out from the backing of people who believe in you, respect you and who need you.
jack		Is that so?
rickey		If you fight, they won't say Chapman forced you to; they'll just say that you're over your head. That you belong where you are.
jack		Do you know what it's like, having someone do this to you?!
rickey		No. You do. You're the one living the sermon. In the wilderness. Forty days. All of it. Only you.
jack		And not a damn thing I can do about it.
rickey		Of course there is! You can stand up and hit! You can get on base and you can score! You can win this game for us! We need you as well! Everyone needs you.  You're medicine, Jack. Rickey reaches out, touches the wall to stay standing. Jack just breathes as familiar sounds reverb down the tunnel.
jack		They're taking the field.
rickey		Who's playing first? Jack considers him. Everything hangs in the balance. Then:
jack		I'm gonna need a new bat. As Jack heads back down the tunnel for the field.
chapman		Hey, black Nigger! I know you can hear me! If you were a white boy, you know where you'd be right now?! On a bus headed down to Newport News cuz you can't play for shit! Here comes the pitch. Jack nonchalantly sticks his bat out, pokes a soft hit past second. A nothing hit, but he's standing on first. And he looks, well, ferocious in fact. As Pete Reiser steps up into the batter's box... Jack stares at Dutch Leonard. Assassin's eyes as he takes an insolent, in-your-face lead off first. Dutch fires to first. Jack dives back safe! Back on his feet, he spits out a piece of grit he picked up sliding back on his belly. Not bothering to dust himself off, he's turning into something elemental before our eyes.
barber		Two strikes now to Reiser as Leonard looks in. Robinson with another big lead off first. He's as restless as a cat with a hot foot.
rachel		Steal it, sweetheart. Take it.
handley		I'm sorry. I want you to know what goes on here, it don't go for me. Jack barely nods, but he heard.
barber's voice		Hermanski steps up.
plate		Dutch looking to third, nodding distracted at a sign, looking back to third before... Hermanski cracks a single to left. As Jack crosses the plate, he stares down Chapman on his way to the dugout. As Chapman turns his head, spits --
chapman		You fellas are making too big a deal out of this. He scored We lost. One to nothing.
reporter three		Do you think you were a little hard on Robinson?
chapman		We treat him the same way we do Hank Greenburg except we call Hank a kike instead of a coon. When we play exhibitions against the Yankees, we call DiMaggio the Wop. They laugh at it. No harm, it's forgotten after the game ends. Chapman tosses away his beer can.
chapman		Hey. Let's get the chips off our shoulders and play ball. It's a game, right?
parrott		I'm going in that Phillie dugout tomorrow and wring Chapman's neck! Rickey considers Parrott, starts laughing. Parrott is hurt.
parrott		Did I say something funny?
rickey		When I first told you about Jackie, you were against it. Now all of a sudden you're worrying about him. How do you suppose that happened?
parrott		Well, any decent minded person --
rickey		Sympathy, Harold, is a Greek word. It means to suffer. I sympathize with you means I suffer with you. This Philadelphia manager has done me a service.
parrott		A service?!
rickey		Is there an echo in here? Yes, he's creating sympathy on Jackie's behalf. Philadelphia by the way is Greek for brotherly love. The intercom BUZZES.
rickey		What do you want, Bragan?
bragan		I'd like not to be traded, sir, if it isn't too late.
rickey		What about Robinson? Bragan's been staring at the floor. He looks up now. The low afternoon sun hits his face.
bragan		I'd like to be his teammate.
rickey		Why?
bragan		The world's changing; I guess I can live with the change.
bragan		Thank you, Mr. Rickey. Bragan leaves. Rickey looks at Parrott: What do you know?'
jack		You shouldn't have waited.
rachel		They haven't made a day long enough that I wouldn't wait for you.
jack		Give these boys time. It's a three game series. A beat between them, framed by the steel girders around them.
rachel		They are never going to beat you.
jack		They're taking their best shot. I don't want you coming tomorrow. I don't want you to watch that, them beating me.
rachel		Wherever you are, I am, too. Look at me. Jack... He looks over. It's not easy for this most proud of men.
rachel		I have to watch. So our hearts don't break... Plus I already bought a scorecard. She holds it up. His name the only one filled in.
rachel		And I put your name on it. See? Jack Robinson. He puts his hand out, takes hers.
jack		I did good the day I met you.
rachel		Baby, you hit a home run.
chapman		Hey, porch monkey! Hey Robinson! Hey boy! You know why you're here?
eddie stanky		On the bench. Without warning, he blasts off it. MOVE WITH him as he marches toward Chapman who doesn't see him coming.
chapman		You're here to draw those Nigger dollars at the gate for Rickey!
stanky		Sit down. Sit down or I'll sit you down.
chapman		What's the problem, Stank?
stanky		You're the problem, you goddamn disgrace! What kind of man are you?! You know he can't fight! Pick on someone who can fight!
chapman		Okay, okay. Jesus. As Chapman disappears into his dugout, Jack whacks a single.
jack		Thanks.
stanky		For what? You're on my team. What the hell am I supposed to do?
preacher		Lord, make me an instrument of your peace. Where there is hatred, let me sow love. Where there is injury, let me sow pardon. Where there is darkness, let me sow light. Amens'. We see Rickey sits in the back row, the day heavy on him. A YOUNG GIRL turns, looks at him. Why's a white man here? Rickey smiles, puts a finger to his lips... Shhhh.
higbe		I speak my mind and they trade me! This ain't the America I know! He glares down to Jack's locker. Jack regards him back. It's Higbe who looks away first. He continues packing.
walker		Where are they sending you, Hig?
higbe		Pittsburgh! For cash and some I- talian outfielder named Gionfriddo!
rickey		Do you remember the story, Burt, of the 99 sheep? How one was missing?
shotton		If you're talking about Dixie, I'd leave the word sheep out of it.
rickey		I find myself at odds. I want integration and the pennant. I want to punish Dixie and at the same time I want his salvation.
shotton		Can't he just be a good ballplayer? He has to be a good person, too?
rickey		It would be so much simpler if he wasn't batting .385. As Walker finishes, he passes Jack whose turn it is.
smith		Eddie, what's all this talk about your Cardinals refusing to play?
dyer		We're here, aren't we? We didn't come to New York to go to Macy's. Dyer continues past him. Here comes big JOE GARAGIOLA.
smith		Hey, Garagiola --
garagiola		Get lost. Here comes STAN MUSIAL, a class act if there ever was one.
smith		Hey, Stan, what's the story?
rickey		National League President Frick says this is America and baseball is America's game. He says one citizen has as much right to play as another.
jack		Why are you doing this, Mr. Rickey?
rickey		Because my job is to win. I have an obligation to Brooklyn to put the best team on the field I can. Your presence on the roster increases our chances of winning. Not buying it, Jack looks over at him.
jack		If this is winning, I'd hate to see us on a losing streak.
garagiola		Watch this guy! He can't hit! Especially the curve! He can only get on base bunting! As Jack digs into the box.
garagiola		Take your time, Robinson, you're digging your own grave. Big RED MUNGER looks in for the sign. Garagiola flashes a sign: 1'. Wants it inside. Here's the pitch. Inside. Jack just scoots back.
barber		Takes a fastball in on the hands. Robinson, who is pitched to a great deal that way, uses a thicker handle bat than most hitters, just because he hits a lot of balls out on his hands.
jack		What's your average, Joe?
garagiola		It'd be a lot higher than yours, if I could run as fast as you can.
jack		No matter how fast you run, you'll never hit as much as you weigh. Garagiola signals for another fastball.
garagiola		C'mon, Munger! Boy's got a hole in his bat! Munger throws inside. Jack falls back, strokes a double into the gap.
barber's voice		That one wasn't quite in' enough. Robinson punishing the Redbirds with a smart piece of hitting.
rachel		Oh Jack...
jack		What is it, Rae?
rachel		Nothing. It's just, sometimes when I sit up there with those bastards, those loudmouths in the stands, I know you can hear them.
jack		Don't worry. It's okay.
rachel		No, it's not okay. And I can hear them, too. Jack looks at her, takes her hand in his.
jack		It worked. I didn't hear a thing. She tries to smiles. As the tears streak her cheeks, he leans in kisses her forehead.
jack		They're just ignorant.
rachel		If they knew you, they'd be ashamed. She puts her arm around him, draws that strength.
jack		Hold on.
rachel		I am holding on.
jack		Long as we hold on, it'll be okay.
rickey		You look lovely, Mrs. Robinson.
rachel		Thank you.
rickey		I don't know how you do it. Every day, from the 1st to the 9th. Myself? I could pay $100 for a suit and in twenty minutes I'd look like I fell out of bed. Even my shoes look rumpled. They watch Jack crack one high off the Schaefer Beer sign.
rachel		I used to think Jack was conceited.
rickey		Is that so?
rachel		It was the very first thing I noticed about him.
rickey		How did you two meet?
rachel		I saw him at a UCLA football game. Even in uniform with a helmet on, his vanity was awful. It was the way he held his hands on his hips. I hated him!
rickey		Trying to catch her in a race. She was the fastest girl in town. Beautiful legs. I finally caught up; we've been together ever since. They sit a moment. Below: Jack nails another one.
rickey		I wanted to apologize to you.
rachel		For what?
rickey		Everything. I can't apologize to him. He and I both knew what we were getting into. But you. A newlywed, trying to blossom a marriage under all this pressure.
rachel		Don't worry about me. Or us. We know who we are. Crack. Jack hits another.
rickey		Your husband has humbled me. When this all began I thought I was changing the world and that Jackie was my instrument. Can you imagine? I wish I could help him, but I'm just a spectator.
rachel		You help him plenty. Believe me. They watch him rip into another pitch.
rickey		Is he able to get things off his chest? So he doesn't burn up?
rachel		Yes. I have to let him have that silence at first, let him come to me. But he opens up eventually.
rickey		Good. It's too much to carry inside. Does he have any friends on the team?  They're spectators, too. They do admire him though. Rachel looks out to where Reese and Stanky play catch.
rachel		Do you think so?
rickey		Even the worst of us recognizes courage. Moral courage especially. I have to think they see it. Jackie's a man on trial. He's responding with glory and grace. No one can take their eyes off him.
rachel		He's had himself on trial since the day I met him. No man is harder on himself or gets to himself worse than Jack. But I hope his team- mates know, they're on trial too.
rickey		I suppose we all are. You're an astute woman, Mrs. Robinson.
pennock		Branch, it's Herb.
rickey		What can I do for you, Herb?
pennock		How long have we known each other?
rickey		Twenty years. Maybe more.
pennock		Then trust me when I say, Brooklyn's due here tomorrow, but you can not bring that Nigger down here with the rest of your team. Rickey grits his teeth, stays civil.
rickey		And why's that, Herb? His name's Jackie Robinson by the way.
pennock		We're just not ready for this sort of thing in Philadelphia.
rickey		Herbert, what your team does is your decision. But my team is coming to Philadelphia. With Robinson. If we have to claim the game as a forfeit, we will. That's 9-0 in case you forgot.
walker		Maybe 42's got enough friends in town, we can bunk up.
jack		What's that supposed to mean?
walker		Nothing. It's just, I know when you can't get into a hotel, you got people's houses you can stay at.
jack		What do you want from me, Walker?
walker		An apology.
jack		Watch your damn hand! And they're lunging at each other. Separated by Reese, Stanky, Branca and Bragan while other players hold off Shotton. Two fights about to break out at the same time.
shotten		Grandpa?! I'll show you grandpa! Parrott summons something deep, lets loose a shrill WHISTLE.
parrott		Fellas! Burt! Please! Take the bus to the field! Worry about the game. I'll find another hotel.
pennock		There is a great lynch mob among us; they go unhooded and work without rope.  We must remember that all this country's enemies are not beyond the frontiers of our home land.
chapman		Some Jew must've wrote that.
pennock		This doesn't look good, Ben! It makes the Phillies, look racist! You've got to do something.
chapman		Me?!
parrott		Jackie, excuse me, um, a request came in. The Phillies manager Ben Chapman, he'd like his photo taken with you. Jack pretends to sniff the air around Parrott.
jack		You been drinking, Harold?
parrott		Mr. Rickey thinks it's a good idea. He says it'll be in every sports page in the country. An example that'll show everyone even the most hardened man can change.
jack		Chapman hasn't changed. He's just trying to take the heat off.
parrott		Mr. Rickey says it doesn't matter if he's changed. As long as it looks like he's changed. Chapman said he'd come down here. Or meet you in the runway. As Jack slow burns...
chapman		Jackie's been accepted in baseball and the Philadelphia organization wish him all the luck we can. I only hope in some small way our trial of fire... helped him along. Jack looks at him: Did he just say that?
photographer		How about a picture? Shake hands. Bury the hatchet?
jack		You want a picture? Sure. Jack steps to the on-deck circle, grabs a BASEBALL BAT. Chapman's eyes widen as he starts toward him with it.
jack		 We'll hold the bat. That way we don't have to touch skin. Chapman nods, looks relieved. A photographer hands over a bat. Chapman has two hands on the handle. Jack puts one hand on the barrel, the other stays on his hip.
jack		Ben, I hope all your friends back home like the picture. Jack smiles as the flashbulbs go off. Chapman looks dumb.
dixie walker		By the dugout with Stanky, watches in disbelief.
walker		Carl, I swear, I never thought I'd see ol' Ben eat shit like that.
branca		 Ostermeuller, you kraut! You gotta bat, too! Don't you forget!
ostermueller		I'm ready, you Wop bastard!
rickey		What can I do for you, Pee Wee?
reese		Well, Mr. Rickey, it's like this, the series in Cincinnati next week.
rickey		It's an important road trip, we're only three games out of first.
reese		Yes, sir. You know, I'm from Kentucky.
rickey		Cincinnati's nearly a home game for you.
reese		I got this letter, sir. I guess some people aren't too happy about me playing with Robinson. Rickey is not liking where this is going; he motions for the letter, scans it, reads the highlights...
rickey		Nigger lover. Watch yourself. We will get you, carpetbagger.  Typical stuff. Reese takes the letter back, a little hurt.
reese		It's not typical to me.
rickey		How many of these letters have you gotten, Pee Wee?
reese		Just this. Ain't that enough? Rickey looks Reese over a moment. Pushing back his chair he steps over to a filing cabinet.
rickey		I'll tell you what they aren't, they aren't letters from the Jackie Robinson fan club. Here -- He thrusts a sheaf of it into Reese's hands. As Reese flips through the stack of hate, reads:
reese		Get out of baseball, or your baby boy will die.
rickey		Of course he knows. And the FBI. They're taking a threat in Cincinnati pretty seriously. So excuse me if I'm not too shocked at you being called a carpetbagger. You should be proud of it!
reese		We'd just like to play ball, Mr. Rickey. That's all we want to do.
rickey		I understand. I bet Jackie just wants to play ball. I bet he wishes he wasn't leading the league in hit by pitch. I bet he wishes people didn't want to kill him. But the world isn't so simple anymore. I'm not sure it ever was. We just, baseball ignored it. Now we can't.
freckles		Nigger!  We don't want you here!
jack		What's up? Now cries of CARPETBAGGER! cut through. PEE WEE, HOW CAN YOU PLAY WITH THIS BLACK BASTARD!? Reese stares up at the worst hecklers along the first base line. He looks a little sad.
reese		They can say what they want; we're here to play baseball.
jack		Just a bunch of crackpots still fighting the Civil War.
reese		Hell, we'd a won that son of a gun if the cornstalks had held out. We just ran out of ammunition. Jack laughs. Reese has a funny way of saying it.
jack		Better luck next time, Pee Wee. Reese impulsively puts his arm around Jack's shoulder, stares into the Cincy dugout.
reese		Ain't gonna be a next time. All we got is right now. This right here. Know what I mean? Walker reacting out in right. The crowd shuts down, some in shock at the gesture. Jack surprised also.
jack		What're you thanking me for?
reese		I've got family here from Louisville. Up there somewhere. I need em to know who I am.
umpire		Hey! Number one! You playing ball or socializing?
reese		Playing ball, ump! Playing ball!
branca		 You ever write about white guys in your paper? I mean, if I threw a no hitter and Jackie got a base hit, what would the headline be?
smith		Jackie leads Dodgers to victory. Again. Under that: white Italian guy does ok. They all laugh.
reese		I'd call your folks for ya, Ralph. Tell em how you did.
branca		No problem. It'll still make the Post. They play their hands as they talk.
reese		We are on some kind of winning streak, huh boys? And I don't mean cards.
branca		Hey, maybe forty of our last fifty.
smith		Thirty-two and fifteen actually. Since the 4th of July.
branca		Math is why I throw a baseball for a living.
reese		This next series against the Cardinals, it's a big one. They look over at Jack who hasn't said a word. It's his play. He lays his cards down. Deadpan as he wins the hand.
jack		Gin.
stanky		Next batter, throw right at his head. Clean his clock --
barber's voice		The top of the 12th and Kurowski at the plate. He hit his 20th home run on Monday so Casey's going to want to be careful with him. The pitch grooves in and Kurowski nails it.
first base		He rounds hard, returns to the bag. Reiser stepping up to the plate as Musial holds Jack on at first. Jack in a fury.
jack		I don't care what happens, I don't care what kind of play it is, when I get to second I'm gonna knock someone into centerfield.
musial		 I don't blame you, man, you got every right. Jack running on the pitch. Reiser bunts. The play is to first. Reiser is out and Jack slides safe into second. SCHOENDIENST has the sense to vacate before he gets there.
jack		Bouncing up and down, wearing that badge of potential violence and action. The crowd buzzing, the electricity practically hits you in the face. Jack's going to score.
rickey		Coming up out of his seat along with the fans around him.
jack		Walker at bat. Jack steps out, checks on MARION the shortstop. He takes another step out, looks to Schoendienst.
barber's voice		The Cardinals pick up a game. It was one of those plays where you do or you don't and Jackie didn't.
reporter one		Did he spike you on purpose?
jack		What are you asking me for then?
reporter two		Are you calling Slaughter a liar?
rickey		Get out. Let me talk to my first baseman. Go. He's getting stitched up for Pete's sake. The reporters move off for other interviews. Reporter Two hesitant to let it go, finally drifts off. Rickey watches.
rickey		Sticking up for yourself is what you'd expect of any man. Some find it galling to see it in a Negro.
jack		I'm sorry, Mr. Rickey.
rickey		Sorry? Sorry for what?
jack		I lost my cool out there. It probably cost us the game.
rickey		I told you, Jackie, all the best base runners get caught sometimes.
jack		I wasn't thinking. Rickey pulls up a chair sits across from him, leans in.
rickey		Do you know what I saw this morning? I was passing a sandlot and a little white boy was up to bat. You know what he was doing?
jack		Sitting on a fastball?
rickey		He was pretending he was you. Wiping his hands on his pants, swinging with his arms outstretched like you do. A little white boy pretending he was a black man.
jack		Why are you doing this, Mr. Rickey?
rickey		We had victory over fascism in Germany; it's time for victory over racism at home.
jack		Why are you doing this? Come on now. A long moment between them. Finally, Rickey looks away.
rickey		I love this game. I love baseball. I've given my life to it. Forty odd years ago I was a player coach at Ohio Wesleyan University. We had a Negro catcher, best hitter on the team. Charley Thomas. Rickey starts slowly rubbing the baseball in his hands.
rickey		A fine young man. I saw him laid low. Broken because of the color of his skin and I didn't do enough to help. I told myself I did, but I didn't. The game I loved had something unfair at the heart of it. I ignored it. But a time came when I could no longer do that.
jack		You're welcome.
rickey		You're a force of nature, Jackie, you've complicated everything but yourself. You're changing the world, and refusing to let it change you. I for one am in awe. Jack reaches, takes the baseball from him. A beat as they consider each other. Finally, a promise...
jack		I won't get picked off second base again. Not this year.
jack		It's pop's last long road trip of the year, little man.
rachel		Careful you don't wake him.
jack		I know. I won't.
rachel		I don't like seeing you leave, that's all. He looks at her a beat, resumes packing...
jack		I'll be home in a week.
rachel		Eleven days. That's a long time without you. He doesn't answer, packs away. Finally:
jack		Seriously?
rachel		That's why they're throwing the fastballs inside. He looks at her, a little shocked.
rachel		Fight those inside fastballs off, foul them back. Sooner or later they won't be able to help but throw a curve. He steps to the bed, leans over her.
jack		And what'll happen then? She clucks a 'hit' sound, makes an 'ahhhhhh' crowd sound.
jack		We win enough of these next games and we'll bring home the pennant.
rachel		Pennant? Where are we going to put a pennant? All these baby diapers hanging everywhere. Jack looks around the room, at the diapers hanging.
jack		We got room right over there. Between number one and number two. She mock grimaces at his bad joke.
rachel		Win one if you have to, but bring yourself home; that'll be plenty. They kiss.
jack		Rae, you're in my heart.
rachel		Promise me you'll come home. That you'll always come home. As he looks at all he loves in the world...
jack		I promise.
jack		Come on, Casey, get him out! Pitch that ball!
barber's voice		He's got it! And one of the Dodgers has him!
branca		Can I ask you something, Jackie? How come you never shower until everyone else is done? Jack just stares at him. Branca won't let it drop.
branca		You shy or something?
jack		I don't want to make anyone uncomfortable.
branca		We're a team. On a hot streak. Half the wins on account of you. You're the bravest guy I ever saw. You're leading us and you're afraid to take a shower? A beat as Jack considers him. Stone-faced.
branca		C'mon. Take a shower with me.
rickey		Rickey here.
parrott		We did it, Boss! We did it! We swept Cincinnati! That puts us seven games up. Joyous, Rickey grabs a sheet showing the NL standings.
rickey		And eliminates the Giants and Boston. He puts an X' through Boston and the Giants. The rest of the NL are already crossed out. Only the Cardinals remain. At the same time, Parrott X's the same out on his notebook.
rickey		We'd have to lose nearly every game for the Cardinals to catch us now. One more win may do it. Who's pitching tomorrow for the Pirates?
parrott		Ostermueller.
barber's voice		A very big game today here in Pittsburgh. A win and the Dodgers will have clinched the National League Pennant.
barber's voice		Fritz Ostermueller on the mound. He's 12 and 8 on the season.
ostermueller		You don't belong! You'll never belong! Jack waits. Ostermueller pitches.
barber's voice		Here comes the pitch and Robinson takes outside. Ball one.
barber's voice		Ostermueller winds and throws, low and away ball two. Fritz seems to be pitching around Jackie. Or trying to get him to chase.
rachel		Come on. Throw him a strike.
barber's voice		3 and 0 now. Robinson waiting on something he can swing on. As catcher Kluttz throws it back...
jack		Give me something I can hit!
ostermueller		You want it?!
barber's voice		That is a deep fly ball to left. Kiner on his horse, but I don't think he'll get there.
barber's voice		Back, back, back and oh doctor! Robinson got his pitch!
higbe		Pittsburgh...
****Dialogues from script :500_days_of_summer.txt****

narrator		This is a story of boy meets girl.
narrator		The boy, Tom Hansen of Margate, New Jersey, grew up believing that he'd never truly be happy until the day he met his... "soulmate."
narrator		This belief stemmed from early exposure to sad British pop music and a total misreading of the movie, "The Graduate."
narrator		The girl, Summer Finn of Shinnecock, Michigan, did not share this belief.
narrator		Since the disintegration of her parents' marriage, she'd only loved two things. The first was her long blonde hair.
narrator		The second was how easily she could cut it off... And feel nothing.
narrator		Tom meets Summer on January 8th in a San Francisco office building. In an instant, he will know she's the one he's been looking for.
narrator		This is a story of boy meets girl.
narrator		You should know up front, this is not a love story.
paul		I didn't know who else to call.
girl		You did the right thing. Where is he?
girl		Thomas.
tom		Rachel? What are you doing here?
tom		Help me how?
rachel		First, put down the plate.
rachel		Now come here and sit down.
rachel		The key is not to panic.
tom		I think I'm gonna be sick.
rachel		Drink this.
mckenzie		What is that?
rachel		Vodka.
tom		 More.
tom		Does Mom know you're here? It's
rachel		Don't worry about it. Start from the beginning. Tell us what happened...
tom		I thought it was a great day.
rachel		And then what happened?
tom		 God, I love eating pancakes at night. It's like the greatest thing ever. How great is this?
summer		I think we should stop seeing each other.
rachel		Just like that?
tom		Just like that.
paul		Did she say why?
summer		This thing. This whatever it is. You and me. Do you think this is normal?
tom		I don't know. Who cares about normal?! I'm happy. Aren't you happy?
summer		You're happy?
tom		You're not?
summer		All we do is argue!
tom		That is such a lie!
rachel		Maybe she was just in a bad mood.
paul		A hormonal thing.
rachel		P.M.S.?
tom		 What do you know about PMS?
rachel		More than you.
tom		Oh my god.
mckenzie		Please continue.
summer		This can't be a total surprise. I mean, we've been like Sid and Nancy for months.
tom		Summer, Sid stabbed Nancy seven times with a kitchen knife. We've had some disagreements but I hardly think I'm Sid Vicious.
summer		No... I'm Sid.
tom		 So I'm Nancy?!
summer		Let's just eat and we'll talk about it after. I'm starving.
summer		 Mmm, you're so right. These are great!
summer		 What?
summer		Tom, don't. Come back. You're still my best fr---
paul		Jesus.
mckenzie		That's harsh.
tom		I don't know what I'm gonna do.
rachel		You're gonna be fine.
tom		 I'm gonna throw up.
mckenzie		Or that.
rachel		Here.
mckenzie		Come on Hansen. You'll be ok. You're the best guy I know. You'll find someone.
paul		You know what they say...there's plenty other fish in the sea.
tom		No.
paul		Sure they do. They say that.
tom		Well they're wrong. It's not true. I've fished in that sea. I've jumped in and swam in that sea! I'm fucking Aquaman!  Sorry. What I mean is... there are no other fish. This was my fish.
tom		I'm in love with Summer.
paul		 For real?
tom		For real, Paul. I'm madly in love with that girl.
paul		Oh shit.
mckenzie		Now I know this may be a little risque...but if New Hampshire Greetings wants the jump on those conservative, right-wing neo-Nazis at Hallmark, maybe playing it safe is the wrong approach. The nuclear family is dead and we need a new holiday to recognize that.
mckenzie		May 21st. Other Mother's Day.
vance		Hmmm. That's an intriguing idea McKenzie. Along with Grossman's "Magellan Day" I'd say we've got some potential here. What do you think Hansen? Could you write up some prototypes for these?
summer		Excuse me, Mr. Vance? There's a
vance		 Everyone this is Summer, my new assistant. Summer just moved here from...
summer		Michigan.
vance		Right. Michigan. Well, Summer, everyone. Everyone, Summer. Excuse me, I have to take this.
summer		Nice to meet you all.
tom		What do we know about this new girl?
mckenzie		Who?
tom		The new girl. Summer. In Vance's office.
mckenzie		Dude. I hear she's a bitch from hell!
tom		 Really?
mckenzie		Patel tried to talk to her in the copy room. She was totally not having it.
tom		Maybe she was just in a hurry.
mckenzie		And maybe she's some uppity, better than everyone, superskank.
tom		Damn.
mckenzie		I know. She's pretty hot.
tom		That makes me so mad! Why is it pretty girls always think they can treat people like crap and get away with it?
mckenzie		Dunno.
tom		Like, just cause she has high cheekbones and soft skin...
mckenzie		...and really good teeth.
tom		And maybe the world's most perfect breasts...Just cause of that stuff, she can walk around like she's center of the universe?
mckenzie		 Women.
tom		Ugh. You know what? Screw her! We haven't even met and I can't stand her already.
summer		The Smiths.
summer		I love The Smiths.
tom		Sorry?
summer		I said. I love The Smiths. You have good taste in music.
tom		 You like the Smiths?
summer		 "To die by your side is such a heavenly way to die." Love it.
tom		 Oh my god.
tom		Hi.
summer		Hello.
tom		So, uh, Summer...
summer		Tom.
tom		Yeah! How's it going so far?
summer		The city or the firm?
tom		Both... Either.
summer		I'm happy. Still getting situated. How long have you worked here?
summer		Really? Jesus. Did you always want to write greeting cards?
tom		Are you nuts? I don't even want to do it now.
summer		What is it you want to do?
tom		I studied to be an architect actually.
summer		That's so cool! What happened?
tom		Eh, you know. Same old story. Moved to the city to work for a company. Company went under. Needed a job. My friend worked here. Got me this.
summer		And are you any good?
tom		 Well I wrote that one.
summer		 "Today You're a Man. Mazel Tov on your Bar Mitzvah."
tom		It's a big seller.
summer		I meant, are you any good as an architect?
tom		Oh... No. I doubt it.
summer		Well, I'd say you're a perfectly ...adequate... greeting card writer.
tom		Why thank you. That's what they called me in college. "Perfectly adequate" Hansen.
summer		They used to call me "Anal Girl."
summer		 I was very neat and organized.
summer		Anyway, I should get back.
tom		Ok, well, I'll see you around.
tom		And it turns out she's read every Graham Greene novel ever published. Her desk is lined with Magritte posters and Edward Hopper.
rachel		Your favorites.
tom		We're so compatible it's insane! Seriously! It doesn't make sense! She's not like I thought at all. She's... amazing.
rachel		Oh boy.
tom		What?
rachel		You know...just cause some cute girl likes the same bizarro music you do doesn't make her "the one."
tom		 Of course it does.
sarah		Pause and come eat.
tom		Hey Martin.
rachel		He met a girl.
sarah		 Yeah?
rachel		 Yeah.
sarah		Oh shit.
narrator		When one strongly believes in something, it takes overwhelming contradictory evidence to change their minds.
narrator		Tom had always been a devout believer in the idea of "true love."  The evidence did not support him.
narrator		Exhibit A: Lisa Rayner.
narrator		Exhibit B: Wendy Wilson.
tom		I'm so glad we decided to go away together Bec. I know we've only been dating a few months but it's been...awesome.
narrator		Exhibit C: Rebecca Myles.
tom		And now, you and me, 8 days in Mexico... best spring break ever!
rebecca		I think we should see other people.
narrator		And, finally... Exhibit D: Amanda Heller.
amanda		It's just... it's complicated.
tom		What's complicated? Last week you said you loved me!
amanda		I know it's sudden but...
tom		No, this can't be. Everything was going so great. I don't understand.
amanda		 Here.
tom		What's this?
amanda		Because you're, like, the biggest music nerd I've ever met, I think this should really help explain where I'm coming from.
amanda		You remember how much I loved this song when you first played it for me?
tom		Sure. It's all you wanted to listen to for weeks.
amanda		Right. And I still like it, don't get me wrong. It's just... When I hear it now, I don't feel the same...rush.
tom		 Ok...
amanda		I press the skip button.
tom		What does this have to do with--?
amanda		I'd rather listen to something else.
tom		But Amanda... this is a great fucking song!
tom		It's off.
paul		What?
tom		Me and Summer.
mckenzie		Was it ever on?
tom		No. But it could have been. In a world where good things happen to me.
paul		Yeah well, that's not really where we live.
tom		No.
mckenzie		So what happened?
tom		You ready for this?
tom		Summer...
summer		Yeah?
tom		 So how was your weekend?
summer		It was good.
tom		You believe that shit?
mckenzie		What shit?
paul		I think I missed something.
tom		"It was good." She didn't say "It was good." She said "It was good." Emphasis on the good. She basically said "I spent the weekend having sex with this guy I met at the gym." Fucking whore. Screw her. It's over.
mckenzie		What the hell is wrong with you?!
paul		Dude, you got problems.
tom		She's not interested in me. There's nothing I can do.
mckenzie		Based on..."it was good?" TOM And some other things.
paul		Like what, she said "hey" instead of "hi" cause that totally means she's a lesbian.
tom		I gave her all sorts of chances.
summer		I'm going to the supply room. Anyone need anything?
mckenzie		No thanks.
tom		I think you know what I need.
tom		Toner.
summer		Oh ok, sure, no prob.
tom		Do you want to go out with me?
tom		And the Priest says, "But we're already out!"
summer		That is hilarious!
tom		I know!
tom		Not once did she take the bait. Not once. Screw it. I'm done with her. It's over.
mckenzie		This Friday. 10 bucks all you can karaoke at The Well.
tom		No way McKenzie. Absolutely not.
mckenzie		Come on!  "Take me down to the paradise city where the grass is green and they got big titties!"
tom		They won't let you back in there after last time.
mckenzie		I wasn't that bad.
tom		Not at all. You just threw up on the stage, tried to fight the bartender, and then threatened to burn the place down before passing out on the sidewalk. Quiet night for you.
mckenzie		 You saved my life that day.
tom		We are not going back there.
mckenzie		This is a work thing, Tommy. It won't be like that. The whole office is going.
tom		I really can't. Even if I wanted to. There's a lot of stuff I gotta take care of.
mckenzie		You're not listening to me.
tom		What?
mckenzie		The whole office is going. Tom looks over to where Summer sits. And realization dawns on him...
tom		Hi.
summer		Hey! They said you weren't coming.
tom		You asked if I was coming?  I mean...my plans got cancelled...
mckenzie		 Goddamn that song is brilliant! What's up Hansen?
summer		Ooh that's me.
summer		 Ok. I'm the new girl so no making fun of me.
tom		You were great up there, by the way.
summer		Well you can't go wrong with The Boss.
tom		 I hear that.
mckenzie		Hey, did you know Tom here's from Jersey?
summer		Yeah?
summer		I named my cat after Springsteen.
tom		No kidding? What's his name?
summer		Bruce.
tom		 That makes sense.
mckenzie		So you got a boyfriend?
summer		Me? No.
mckenzie		Why not?
summer		Don't really want one.
mckenzie		Come on. I don't believe that.
summer		You don't believe a woman could enjoy being free and independent?
mckenzie		 Are you a lesbian?
summer		No, I'm not a lesbian. I'm just not comfortable being somebody's "girlfriend." I don't want to be anybody's anything, you know? MCKENZIE I have no idea what you're talking about.
summer		It sounds selfish, I know, but... I just like being on my own. Relationships are messy and feelings are always getting hurt. Who needs all that? We're young. We're in one of the most beautiful cities in the world. 
tom		But...what if you meet someone and fall in love?
summer		 Love? You seriously believe in that stuff?
tom		Of course I do.
summer		Interesting. A real romantic.
mckenzie		Oh you have no idea. This one... embarrassing. There was this one girl,  I gotta tell this story --
tom		Summer, hold on... you don't believe in love?
summer		I don't even know what that word means. I know I've never felt it, whatever it is in all those songs. And I know that today most marriages end in divorce. Like my parents.
tom		Well mine too but --
summer		Oh yeah, And I read in Newsweek, there were these scientists who found that by stimulating a part of the brain with electrodes you can make a person fall in "love" with a rock. Is that the love you're talking about?
tom		Well...
summer		Why, what's your take on it?
tom		I think it's...kind of a huge thing.
summer		 Ok. Looks like we're gonna have to agree to disagree on that one.
mckenzie		So, uh, who's singing next?
summer		 I'd say it's your turn loverboy.
tom		Nooo. I don't sing in public.
summer		Sure you do. I see you lip-synching to your headphones every morning on your way in.
tom		I don't...
mckenzie		You really do.
summer		It's ok. I like it. Takes a lot of self-confidence to look ridiculous.
mckenzie		 Self-confidence! Ha!
tom		Anyway, I'm not near drunk enough to sing in front of all these people.
summer		Ok then. Let's drink.
tom		It would take at least ten shots to get me to sing.
summer		Bartender!
tom		That's not it.
summer		What is that then?
tom		I have no idea.
summer		I used to watch it every week.
tom		Me too. Why can't we think of the stupid A-Team theme song.
summer		Pathetic.
tom		This is gonna bother me for weeks.
summer		Totally.
mckenzie		"And I'd proudly stand UP!"  I said stand!
tom		Oh here we go.
mckenzie		 He's the best.
tom		Ok, let's get you in a cab.
mckenzie		No. I'm gonna walk. I live right down that street. Or that one.
summer		 Is he gonna be ok?
tom		He'll be fine.
mckenzie		Hey.
tom		What's up?
mckenzie		Not you. You.  He likes you.
tom		 Ok, goodnight McKenzie!
mckenzie		I mean... likes you, likes you. For real. Tell her Tom.
tom		Sorry you had to see that. Happens every time we come here. It's unbelievable. Something about that guy and singing for people. I don't know. But at least he didn't --
summer		Is that true?
tom		What?
summer		You know what. Do you...like me?
tom		Yeah. I like you. Of course I do.
summer		As a friend.
tom		Right. As a friend.
summer		Just as a friend?
tom		Yes. I mean... I haven't really thought about... Yes. Why?
summer		Nothing. I just... You're interesting. I'd like us to be friends. Is that ok?
tom		Oh yeah totally. Friends. You and me. That's... perfect.
summer		Cool.
tom		Cool.
summer		Well, I'm that way. Good night Tom.
tom		G'night Summer.
tom		 Friends. Awesome. That's just great. Well done Hansen, you idiot.
summer		Hey!
tom		Hey!
tom		Hey Mr. Vance.
summer		Yes, Mr. Vance?
paul		You son of a bitch.
paul		Last night, karaoke night?
tom		 Shhh.
paul		The same girl you'd been whining and crying and bitching about for weeks now?
tom		I have not been...
paul		The same girl you said was way out of your league and you'd have no chance with no matter what. That girl?
tom		Paul, seriously...
paul		Did you bang her?
tom		No!
paul		Blow job?
tom		No!
paul		Hand job?
tom		No, Paul, no jobs. I'm still unemployed. We just kissed.
paul		Come on, level with me. As your best friend, who tolerated a whole month of talk talk talk about this girl, nothing but Summer this, Summer that, Summer Summer Summer, I mean you were practically stalking her...
tom		Shhh!
paul		Oh crap.
summer		Hi, I'm Summer..
paul		Summer, wow what an unusual name. I'm sure I'd remember that if I had heard it before. Tom, how come you've never mentioned you knew such a lovely little lady?  Ok, well, I was just... I'm Paul.
summer		Hi Paul.
paul		 I'm a doctor.
summer		Nice to meet you.
paul		Anyway, I'm leaving now. Pretend I was never here. Tom, talk to you later?... Hey, If any jobs open up...
tom		If you heard...
summer		Heard what?
tom		Excellent. You ready to go.
summer		I'm stalking, STARVING!
tom		 He exaggerates!
tom		Check them out.
tom		 That is hot.
tom		I am very turned on right now.
summer		Sometimes you can be so judgmental.
tom		Huh?
summer		I mean, who are you? They're happy. Just mind your own business.
summer		Too soon to say. It's all in the dismount.
tom		If we're lucky, there won't be a dismount.
summer		I can't believe them. I have like zero patience for PDA.
tom		I hear ya. If I want to watch people make out, I have big windows and binoculars at home.
summer		Yeah?
tom		 No. That would be wrong.
summer		This is fun. You're fun.
tom		Thanks.
summer		I mean, I just want to say, up front, I'm not looking for anything serious.
summer		Are you cool with that?
tom		 Sure.
summer		It freaks some guys out when I say that.
tom		 Not me.
summer		Let's just have fun. Let's just...hang out, no pressure, no labels, no obligations.  Ok?
tom		Sure.
summer		 Wanna hold my hand under the table?
tom		Yeah.
tom		I'll be...back in a sec.
tom		Settle. Don't get too excited. She's just a girl. There's lots of them. Who look like that. And like what you like. They're everywhere. Calm yourself.
tom		Are you calm?  Ok. Then it's time to go back in.
summer		Hi.
tom		Oh sweet Jesus!
tom		 I fucking hate Summer.
bus driver		Son, you're gonna have to exit the vehicle.
tom		It's very... complex.
summer		Complex. Yes.
summer		In a way, it speaks so much by saying... so little.
tom		I feel the same way.
tom		You wanna go to the movies?
summer		 God yes!
tom		A lot of people have problems with this, but to me, it makes both structures so much more beautiful side by side like that.
tom		The guy who made this, Maybeck, he is a God.
tom		It just makes you feel... peaceful.
tom		No. See now, this is torture.
summer		Why?
tom		Over there, that's St. Patrick's church. The beauty of St. Patrick's is its humility. With this giant mirror thing deflecting all the attention away, it's too humble. No one even knows it's there.
summer		How would you change it?
tom		There's a million things. First, there's no need for this much glass. You could easily...
summer		Show me.
tom		What?
summer		Don't talk about it. Do it.
tom		See this beam, it steps on the landscape. But if we moved it... just so...
summer		You wanna --
tom		No you go first.
summer		It doesn't matter to me.
tom		Whatever you want.
both		 Hey./ Hi.
summer		 So how's it going?
tom		Hello?
mckenzie		Your girl is losing it.
summer		This is not at all as easy as it looks.
tom		Ow!
tom		There's no way.
summer		Why not?
tom		"Octopus's Garden?" You may as well just say "Piggies?"
summer		I told you. I love Ringo.
tom		You're insane.
summer		Why?
tom		Cause nobody loves Ringo.
summer		That's what I love about him.  Ooh.
summer		 This got great reviews.
summer		Is that... possible?
paul		So what's going on with you and Summer?
tom		I don't know.
paul		Is she your girlfriend?
tom		I wouldn't say that.
mckenzie		What would you say?
tom		Like, are we "going steady?" Come on, guys. We're adults.
paul		It's not an unreasonable question. Watch. McKenzie, do you have a girlfriend?
mckenzie		No I do not. In fact girls are repulsed by me. Paul, how about you?
paul		Why yes, in fact I do. Her name is Robyn. See Tom, it's easy.
tom		It is when you've been with the same girl since high school.
paul		You've been "seeing" this girl, what, two months now?
tom		Something like that.
paul		And you haven't discussed it?
tom		No! She's not... We're not like that.
paul		Like what?
mckenzie		Normal.
tom		We've just been... hanging out.
paul		Hanging out?!
tom		Yeah. Guys, look, Summer and I...we know how we feel. We don't need to label it. "Boyfriend, girlfriend." That stuff is very... juvenile.
mckenzie		You're so gay.
paul		Well let me ask you this then. Do you want her to be your girlfriend?
tom		I don't know... Maybe.
mckenzie		I heard her Hansen. She's not the girlfriend type. You're gonna need to discuss it.
tom		No. We're adults. It'll be fine.
mckenzie		Have you made her a CD yet?
tom		 Maybe.
mckenzie		Oh dude.
paul		You really need to have that talk.
rachel		You were saying?
tom		My thinking is... why rock the boat? Things are going well. If we start putting labels on it, that's like the kiss of death. Like saying to a girl "I love you."
rachel		I know what you mean. That's what happened with me and Sean.
tom		Who the hell's Sean?
rachel		My boyfriend before Mark.
tom		Who the f--! Never mind. Help me. I need solid female advice.
tom		Yeah but, you know me. This is the kinda stuff that always gets me in trouble.
rachel		Hmm. So, basically you do want to ask the question, `are we boyfriend/girlfriend?' You're just afraid you'll get an answer you don't want and that will shatter your illusions of how good everything's been these past few months. Is that about right?
tom		 Something like that.
rachel		Thomas, tell me this. Is it worse to get the wrong answer now... or find out in a month she has a date coming up with Lars from Norway?
tom		Who's Lars?
rachel		He's a professional surfer with Brad Pitt's face and Jesus's abs.
tom		That son of a bitch.
rachel		You see what I mean?
rachel		Later dude.
tom		Coach, no, wait! I need her.  Rachel, what do you think I should do?
rachel		 Just don't be a pussy.
summer		Hi.
tom		Hi.
summer		Are you ok?
tom		Yeah.
summer		You sure?
tom		Summer, I've gotta ask you something.
summer		Ok.
summer		Wait!
summer		Whoa. Oh my god. We can't talk during this song. It's too beautiful.
tom		I just don't get women's fashion nowadays. Everybody with the tattoos, the giant hoop earrings, those annoying hats. Explain this to me.
summer		People think it looks good.
tom		Do you?
summer		On some.
tom		I like how you dress.
summer		Yeah? What if I started wearing berets and got a huge butterfly tattoo on my leg?
tom		 Please don't.
douche		 Hey.
summer		Hey.
douche		How's it going?
summer		Ok.
douche		You live around here?
summer		Yeah not too far.
douche		I've never seen you here before.
summer		You're not too perceptive.
douche		Ha. That's funny.
douche		So, uh, let me buy you a drink.
summer		No thank you.
douche		Are you with this guy?
tom		 Hi. I'm Tom.
douche		Whatever.  Come on, one drink. What are you drinking?
summer		Sorry, no thank you.
douche		You're serious? This guy?
tom		Hey buddy --
summer		 Don't be rude. I'm flattered, I'm just not interested. Now why don't you go back over there and leave us alone, ok?
douche		It's a free country.
douche		So you and him, huh? I can't believe that. Is this guy really your boyfriend?
tom		Did you see that punch? I don't know where it came from. I haven't punched someone since Josh Greenberg in fifth grade. Guess I'm gonna have to throw out this shirt.
tom		Hey. What is it?
summer		I can't believe you.
tom		What?
summer		You were so completely uncool in there.
tom		You're mad at me? I just got my ass kicked for you.
summer		Oh that was for me? You were, what, protecting me? Next time Tommy, don't. I fight my own battles.
tom		Come on, that guy was an asshole!
summer		You didn't have to hit him. Why didn't you just let me handle it?
tom		I don't know. He was --
summer		See. This is why I don't want a serious relationship.
tom		Whoa. What was that?
summer		Nothing. Look, I like you Tom. I like this. What we've been doing. But maybe it's gone too...
tom		What...?
summer		I told you all along what I don't want and it's...
summer		I'm tired. Can we talk about this tomorrow?
tom		 I just got my ass kicked!
tom		 I got one good shot in.
tom		 Hi.
summer		 Hi.
tom		What's up?
summer		Nothing.
tom		Ok.
tom		Wait, are you still mad at me?
summer		 Tom...
tom		Holy shit you are. I can't believe you!
summer		 Are you almost done?
tom		Yeah. I'm all done.
tom		You know what... Sometimes you really don't make any sense.
summer		Say you're sorry.
tom		Huh?
summer		Say you're sorry for acting like a jerk.
tom		I am. I'm sorry for acting like a jerk.
summer		Ok. Me too.
tom		Summer... we don't have to label what we're doing. I just... I need -
summer		I know -
tom		Consistency. I need to know you won't wake up tomorrow and feel a different way.
summer		I can't promise you that. Nobody can. Anyone who does is a liar.
summer		I can only tell you how I feel right now... or I can show you.
tom		Have you ever had a real "boyfriend?"
summer		What?
tom		A boyfriend. "Going steady." Whatever. You know what I mean.
summer		Well... yeah.
tom		More than one?
summer		A few.
tom		Tell me about them.
summer		Oh no way.
tom		Why?
summer		Cause there's nothing to tell.
tom		Come on, I'm interested.
summer		You wanna have the relationship history conversation?
tom		Yes.
summer		You sure about that?
tom		No. Yeah. I don't know. Why not? I can take it.
summer		Ok. Well, in high school, there was Markus.
tom		Quarterback slash homecoming king?
summer		He was a rower. Very hot.
tom		What happened to Markus?
summer		He works for the Republican party. Very successful. Just not for me.
tom		Ok. And then?
summer		Well, for a short time in college, there was Kurt.
summer		That didn't really go anywhere.  And... my semester in Rome. Daniele Belardelli. AKA "The Puma."
tom		The Puma?
summer		Yeah, cause, you know...
tom		And that's it?
summer		The ones that lasted.
tom		What happened? Why didn't they work out?
summer		Nothing happened really. It's what always happens. Life.
alison		So how long have you known Paul and Robyn?
tom		Since grade school.
alison		No way, really? That's crazy.
tom		Yeah.
alison		Well I'm glad you called. They spoke very highly of you.
tom		Great.
alison		So...uh... how's it going?
tom		Ok.
alison		You've been pretty quiet.
tom		Sorry.
alison		I'm pretty quiet too. Usually. It's nice sometimes to be comfortable enough that you can just sit and eat and not have to say anything, you know?
tom		Uh-huh.
alison		Do you want to try some --
tom		No thanks.
tom		I'm sorry. It's just... there's this girl.
alison		Oh.
tom		I'm not usually like this. I wasn't before... Long story short, she wrecked me. I don't know if you can tell but it was pretty recent and I'm still kinda thinking about her.
alison		 Well maybe you should think about... someone else... who could cheer you up.
tom		I can't get her out of my head, you know? I see her everywhere. She's all I think about. And it's horrible. Cause I totally didn't see it coming. I thought things were fine. So now I keep going through every day in my mind, every second really. Wondering. What went wrong? Is it my fault? Could I have prevented it somehow?
tom		A lot of people have problems with this, but to me, it makes both structures so much more beautiful side by side like that.
summer		While you continue to talk about buildings and whatever other bullshit interests you, I'll just nod my head and pretend to listen while secretly dreaming about the many ways I can one day rip out your heart and eat it like the rabid vampire I am.
tom		Maybe there were things I could have said or done, you know?
alison		Waiter!
tom		Or... Christ, I don't know, maybe she was never that interested in me to begin with.
tom		 How was your weekend?
summer		 It was good.
tom		Anyway... sorry. If I'm acting strange, that's why.
alison		It's ok. I'm sure it's tough getting over an ex-girlfriend.
tom		Actually she was never my girlfriend.
tom		I just... I thought I'd have figured it out by now, you know? My life. Where I'm going, where I want to end up, who with. All that stuff. I still don't know anything. And the thing is... When I was with Summer, none of that mattered. I never even noticed how much of my life was missing! Isn't that weird?
alison		You were in love, that's what it does. But, now that you know where the holes are you can start to fill them.
tom		Sure.  Hey, I've been talking non-stop. You talk.
alison		Me? Well I grew up --
tom		So what do you think? Did I do something? Did I not do something? What can I do now?
alison		I... 
tom		 Oh! You know what we should do...
tom		"You said you'd stand by your man!/So tell me something I don't understand. You said you loved me!/And that's a fact! And then you left me, said you felt trapped!
tom		"You didn't stand by me! Not at all! You didn't stand by me," I'm talking about you Summer!
summer		Hey it's me.
tom		Hello me. You having a good day?
summer		I am thank you. Listen, about tonight... I think I might just stay in and go to bed early.
tom		What? Why?
summer		I'm just really tired and I've gotta go in early tomorrow. Would you be super mad at me if we went out this weekend instead?
tom		Well... You don't want to just, maybe, go to dinner. I mean, you've gotta eat right?
summer		I'm not really that hungry. And this place is fancy right?
tom		 Sorta.
summer		I'd rather not. Seriously, do you mind?
tom		Hey, no, that's cool. Whatever you want to do.
summer		Thank you. So we'll talk tomorrow, alright?
tom		Sure.
summer		Great. Good night Tom.
tom		Good night.  Hey, Happy... birthday.
paul		I just got lucky I guess. We met in elementary school. We had the same class schedule in the 7th grade and we just... clicked.
mckenzie		Love? Shit, I don't know. As long as she's cute and she's willing, right? Actually, cute is a strong word. Not atrocious.
rachel		That's a pretty complex question. Philosophers, poets, scientists, everybody has a theory, don't they? 
summer		Ok I'm sick of this love shit. Come on! We've been fed this nonsense for generations to the point where it's now genetically encoded in our very beings. And what does it mean? Absolutely nothing. Give me a break!
mckenzie		I'm just saying... I really need some ass. I'm desperate.  You got nothing?
paul		I wouldn't say "the girl of my dreams," no. The girl of my dreams would have a better rack. Probably different hair, could like sports a little more. But... truth is... Robyn's better than the girl of my dreams.  You know why? Cause she's real.
mckenzie		Hansen, don't you have like twenty bar mitzvah cards to write?
tom		Nope. All done. What are you working on?
mckenzie		Congratulations. But I've run out of ways to say it. "Good job," "well done," "way to go"... I got nothing.
tom		Why don't you try... "Everyday you make me proud. But today, you get a card."
mckenzie		 Shit. That's not bad.
tom		No worries.
tom		This is good Millie. "To my wife, the love of my life. I love you." That's very nice. I was thinking though, why not try something like... "Everyday that we don't meet is meaningless and incomplete." You know, spice it up a little.
tom		Did you try... "Merry?"
all		Whoa/Perfect/Yes!
tom		What else you got?
tom		"...aint no woman got what you got, sista girl. Happy birthday to the lean, sheen, and sizzly mocha queen!"  How's that?
tom		Yeah. It's pretty cool.
tom		You really want to see this?
summer		It sounds amazing.
tom		It's, like, all stabbing and shit.
summer		Exactly.
tom		Ok.
summer		All you take me to are sappy little romances. I want to see some open wounds, damn it. I want carnage.
tom		Fantastic.
tom		Oh shit.
summer		What?
sarah		Hey!
tom		 Hi Mom.
tom		Mom, Martin, this is Summer.
sarah		Summer! Well hello! We've heard so much about you! It's so good to finally meet you.
summer		You too.
martin		 Is this the girlfriend?
tom		Well this is the girl friend I've told you about. I don't know if "girlfriend" is the right word...
sarah		You going to see the serial killer one?
summer		Yes we are.
sarah		Great! Should we save you seats?
summer		Absolutely.
sarah		Ok. We'll see you inside.
tom		Sorry about that.
summer		It's fine.
tom		You wanna go do something else? We can totally bolt.
summer		Did you tell them I was your girlfriend?
tom		What?! No way... I never used that word.
summer		They seemed to think... I mean, why is your step-dad giving me a hug?
tom		He's very...loving.
summer		Does he hug all your friends?
summer		You're not having any fun.
tom		You're having enough for both of us.
summer		I'm dancing. I haven't danced in ages. God. Come on.
tom		No.
summer		Come on! I wanna dance with you.
tom		Where were you an hour ago? I might have danced then. I've been standing here by myself this whole time and you didn't look over once.
summer		So you're pissed?
tom		I'm not pissed. Summer... you know I hate this shit.
summer		Then why are you here?
tom		This is what you wanted to do so...we're doing it.
summer		Yeah well, I didn't need a chaperone. Go home. You're a buzzkill standing there pouting.
tom		 That's real nice.
summer		Tom!
tom		You wanted to see me, Mr. Vance?
vance		Yes Hansen. Sit down.
tom		Ok.
tom		What do you mean?
vance		A death in the family, someone taken ill...anything like that?
tom		No.
vance		Look, I don't mean to pry. Does this have something to do with Summer leaving.
tom		Who?
tom		 Your...?
tom		I'm not following.
vance		For example, here's something you wrote last week...  "Roses are Red, Violets are Blue. Fuck You Whore." Now...most shoppers on Valentine's Day ---
tom		Mr. Vance... are you firing me?
vance		No, no, no. Relax Hansen. You're one of our most... adequate writers.
tom		Ok. Well, I'm sorry. Things for me have been a little difficult.
vance		That's ok. I understand that. I was just thinking... perhaps you could channel your energy into... this.
tom		Funerals and sympathy?
vance		Misery, sadness, loss of faith, no reasons to live... it's perfect for you. Whaddaya say? Good? Good. Now back to work you go.
tom		What's going on?
paul		We have news.
tom		Ok.
mckenzie		It's about her.
tom		Do I want to hear it?
paul		Thats what we wanted to ask you.
mckenzie		It's just...lately you've been...better.
paul		You've been much much better.
mckenzie		So maybe it's best we don't ever bring her up again.
paul		Just let sleeping dogs lie.
mckenzie		Leave those dogs alone Tom!
tom		You guys, look, I'm... I appreciate what you're saying and, thank you, really, for putting up with me these past few months. I've been crazy. But I've accepted the fact that she and I were just two very different people who wanted very different things. I wanted to get serious. Shit, I loved her. And I know now, she just isn't the kind of girl who can settle down with one person and be happy. The way I wanted. And she probably never will. There was nothing I could do.
tom		There's no fucking way!
mckenzie		Tom.
tom		It can't be. It's impossible!
paul		It is.
tom		How do you know?
tom		Jesus Christ people! Get a room!
mckenzie		Tom!
mckenzie		I've been calling every five minutes. Are you ok?
tom		What? Oh yeah. Great.
mckenzie		Do you need anything?
tom		Twinkies?
mckenzie		Sorry.
tom		I'm out of twinkies.
mckenzie		Well let's go.
tom		Go... where?
mckenzie		It's Thursday.
tom		 Hmm?
tom		Uh...no. I really don't.
tom		Well I wouldn't say nothing... Actually, that's about right.
tom		You know what...?
tom		Can I say something about the cat?
vance		Well sure. Go ahead.
tom		This here is, and Rhoda, you know I mean no disrespect... but this... this is total shit.
mckenzie		Tom!
tom		"Don't give up?" "You can do it?"
tom		This isn't inspirational. It's suicidal. He tries that jump, I'm writing a sympathy card for that cat. That's the last thing I want to be doing with my life. It's bad enough writing these things for people.
vance		Hansen, this is a place of business. We don't cut down our co- workers --
tom		That's cause we're liars! It's what we do here. Why don't we level with people? Stop feeding them nonsense?
tom		Yes but think about it! Why do people buy these things? Not to say how they feel. There's paper and pens for that. People give these cards when they can't say how they feel. Or they're afraid to. And we provide the service that lets `em get away with that!
tom		I say to hell with it! Let's level with America. Or at least make them speak for themselves! I mean, seriously, what's this...  "I'm sorry to hear your grandmother has passed." What the hell? Let's give em some truth. Something like, "Sorry to hear about your grandmother. Here's a card so I get some credit in your time of need. I'm sure it makes up for the fact that grandma's dead."
tom		Think about it.  "Congratulations on your new baby." Eh... How bout... "Congratulations on your new baby... Guess that's it for hanging out. Nice knowing ya, buddy."
vance		Hansen, sit down!
tom		 Wait, what's this? Ooh... fancy! Look at this one with all the hearts. Let's open it up. "Happy Valentine's Day, Sweetheart. I love you." Oh that's nice.
mckenzie		Tom...
tom		If someone gave me this card, Mr. Vance... I would eat it.
mckenzie		Tom!
tom		 It's these greeting cards, Sir, these cards, these movies, these pop songs. They're responsible for all the lies, the heartache, everything! We're responsible! Everyone shifts in their seats.
tom		I think we do a bad thing here. People should be able to say how they feel, how they really feel, without some strangers putting words in their mouths. The truth. A card is a nice thought but it shouldn't do the dirty work for you. You love someone, tell them yourself, in your own words. Maybe it's not love at all. Maybe there's no such thing as love. Maybe it's... "galoogoo."  Yeah I made it up, so what?!
tom		It's all crap. We make and peddle crap. And sometimes people believe in this crap. I just can't do it anymore, Mr. Vance. There's enough bullshit in the world without my help. I quit.
tom		There's no fucking way!
mckenzie		Tom.
tom		It can't be. It's impossible!
paul		It is.
tom		How do you know?
mckenzie		We know.
tom		But... It's May! We broke up last August.
paul		I know.
tom		And you said she was single at Christmas.
mckenzie		She was.
tom		And now she's...
mckenzie		Yeah.
tom		Now she's getting married.
paul		I'm so sorry Tom.
tom		Married?
paul		It's insane.
tom		It's impossible. It doesn't make sense. Where did they meet? Is it someone we know?
paul		No.
tom		So everything she said. All that stuff about... it can't be. Not her. I know her too well. She wouldn't do that.
tom		 Fuck!
mckenzie		Tom!
paul		Let him go.
rachel		Your apple pies are really great. So Uncle Sid and Aunt Ro, come light candle number eight!
aunt anita		I can't believe that. No girlfriend?
tom		I can't believe it either!
aunt betsy		What are you 30? You should be married now. With a family. What are you waiting for?
tom		The right girl I guess.
aunt betsy		There's girls everywhere. I bet you have to beat em off with a stick.
tom		Oh you'd be surprised.
aunt anita		 Look at this punum. Are all those girls blind?
aunt betsy		My friend Mimi has a granddaughter. Yay high. Great figure. Bosom out to here --
tom		Hey I appreciate that Aunt Betsy. Lord knows I like bosoms. It's just... I recently got out of a...well, I don't know what it was.
aunt anita		Oh I'm sorry. When was that?
tom		July.
aunt betsy		You mean...seven months ago?
aunt anita		Was it a man?
tom		What?
aunt betsy		She's means `are you a homosexual?'
tom		No. Where's that coming from?
aunt betsy		We just always wondered.
aunt anita		So how's work?
tom		Well...glad you came?
summer		Of course. Where am I exactly?
tom		When you turn 13 in the Jewish religion, you officially become an adult.
summer		Wow. So this is a big day in your sister's life.
tom		Pretty big, yeah.
summer		 So why aren't you smiling?
rachel		Hey brother. Wanna dance?
rachel		Hi.
tom		You having fun? You were great this morning.
rachel		Yeah yeah yeah. Talk to me. How are you?
tom		Me? I'm good. I'm great.
rachel		 I heard.
tom		Yeah.
rachel		Sucks.
tom		Yup.
tom		Anyway, who cares about me? This is your day.
rachel		You know, my friends... they're all in love with you.
tom		Is that right?
rachel		Look.
tom		That's nice.
rachel		What I tell ya? There are plenty other fish in the sea.
tom		Those are guppies.
rachel		Who knows, someday one might turn out to be your "true love."
tom		Are you making fun of me now?
rachel		No I'm serious.
tom		I got news for you Rach. That true love stuff... it's make-believe.
rachel		Well that's not very romantic.
tom		It's the new me.
tom		Alright... go play with your friends.
rachel		You'll be ok?
tom		 Sure.
rachel		Tom.
tom		Hmm?
rachel		I know you think she was the perfect girl for you...  I don't. I think you're just remembering the good stuff. But
tom		Hey.
summer		Hello?
tom		Are you still sleeping?
summer		 I'm getting up. What time is it?
tom		10:30. Are we still hanging out today?
summer		Ok. Sure.
tom		I'll meet you at Liberty in... 20 minutes?
tom		So how was last night?
summer		It was fine. Just a work thing.
tom		Where did you guys go?
summer		Some restaurant.
tom		Fun?
summer		Uneventful. Didn't get home until after 12 though which is way too late for a stupid work function. How was your night?
tom		Pretty standard.
summer		You want to go?
tom		I don't know. You wanna maybe go back to your place or ---
summer		I want to see it. Let's go.
tom		Ok cool.
summer		Unless you don't want to.
tom		No, I will. That's fine.
summer		Ok.
tom		Hey.
tom		Hey Sum, it's just a movie.
summer		I know. I'm sorry Tom.
tom		Is everything alright with you?
summer		Yeah. I'm just...I'm sorry. I'm being ridiculous.
tom		It's ok. This happens to me every time I watch "Hoosiers." Let's go for a walk, ok. Let's get some air. Or go to Sister Ray's.
summer		Ok.
tom		It pains me that we live in a world where no one's ever heard of Spearmint.
summer		I've never heard of them.
tom		And it's painful. Oh look.
summer		So.
tom		So... Now what?
summer		Now...I think I'm gonna call it a day.
tom		Yeah? You wanna maybe...get some dinner or something?
summer		I've got pasta at home.
tom		Are you hungry?
summer		I'm pretty hungry, but --
tom		Ooh!
summer		What?
tom		I've got a great idea!
summer		What?
tom		Let's get breakfast.
summer		Now?
tom		Pancakes?
summer		 Where you coming from?
tom		What? Oh. Nowhere. How long have you been sitting there?
summer		Awhile.
summer		I come here a lot. I always loved this place, ever since you brought me here.
tom		So... I should probably say congratulations.
summer		Probably. But only if you mean it.
tom		I don't know if I do honestly.
summer		I understand.
tom		Yeah well...anyway...I hope you're happy.
summer		You really do?
tom		 God no.
summer		How are you, Tom?
tom		I'm good. Ish.
summer		That's good.
tom		Yeah I quit the office.
summer		Really? That's great! What are you doing now?
tom		Mostly...sleeping. Breaking things.
tom		So who's the guy?
summer		Who, my guy?
tom		Yeah... Wait. Don't tell me. I don't want to know.
summer		Tom...
tom		No really, I don't.
summer		Ok.
tom		It's amazing to me. You're married.
summer		I know.
tom		You're not only someone's girlfriend, your someone's wife!
summer		Pretty crazy, huh?
tom		 I'll never understand that.
summer		Tom --
tom		What's different now? How could things change so quickly?
summer		I don't know. It just happened.
tom		What happened?! That's what I don't get.
summer		I... Tom...
tom		What, tell me...
summer		I woke up one day and I knew.
summer		I knew I could promise him I'd feel the same way every morning. In a way that I... I never could with you.
tom		You know what sucks? Realizing that everything you believe in is complete bullshit.
summer		What is?
tom		Destiny, soulmates, true love. All that stuff. It's nothing more than silly childhood fairy tale nonsense, isn't it? God!
summer		Tom, don't go.
tom		I should have listened to you, Summer. You were right all along.
summer		I was right?
tom		What? This is funny?
tom		What are you laughing at?
tom		 You're a crazy person!
summer		Tom! You're the crazy person!
tom		What are you talking about?!
summer		One day I'm reading a book at the corner deli and this guy sits down and starts asking about it. Now he's my husband!
tom		This is funny to you?
summer		What would have happened if I went to the movies instead? If I went somewhere else for lunch? If I showed up to eat ten minutes later? Tom, it was meant to be, just like you said. And as it was happening, I knew it. I could feel it, sure as the sun. And I kept thinking to myself "Holy shit. Tom was right." You were right about all of it.  It just wasn't me you were right about.
summer		Anyway, I should probably be getting back. It was good to see you. I'm glad you're well.
tom		Summer!
tom		I really do hope you're happy.
summer		I know.  See you later.
girl		Are you here to interview?
tom		Sorry?
girl		Are you interviewing? For the position?
tom		Oh. Yeah. Why, are you?
girl		Yup.
tom		Ah. My competition.
girl		It would appear.
tom		Gee, this is a little awkward.
girl		Yes it is.
tom		Well, I hope you don't get it.
girl		I hope you don't get it. They both laugh. There's a silence for a few beats. And it's during this time that something weird comes over Tom and we can visibly see it in his face. He likes the look of this girl. This girl is cute. He'd like to talk more with her. And, honestly, he's a little surprised by it.
tom		So, uh...
girl		Hmm?
tom		Are you from...California?
girl		Grew up not too far from here. Atherton, near Stanford.
tom		I know Atherton. Nice area.
girl		Have I seen you before?
tom		I, uh, don't know. I don't think so.
girl		Do you go to St. Patrick's? Not to pray or anything but to stand outside?
tom		I do! I love that church. It's like my favorite structure in the city.
girl		If only it wasn't near that horrible mirrored thing...
tom		Yes! Exactly. I totally agree!
girl		Yeah.  I think I've seen you there.
tom		You have? Really? Hmm. I didn't see you.
girl		It happens. You probably weren't looking.
man		Tom Hansen?
tom		Yes.
man		Come on back.
tom		Thank you.
narrator		If Tom had learned anything... it was that you can't ascribe great cosmic significance to a simple earthly event. Coincidence. That's all anything ever is. Nothing more than coincidence.
narrator		It took a long time but Tom had finally learned. There are no miracles. There's no such thing as fate. Nothing is meant to be. He knew. He was sure of it now.  Tom was...
narrator		...pretty sure.
tom		 Excuse me.
girl		Hello stranger.
tom		When this is over... uh... would you like to maybe...grab a cup of coffee or something?
girl		Oh. I'm sorta supposed to meet someone.
tom		 Oh. Got it... No problem.
girl		Ok.
tom		What's that?
girl		Why not?
tom		Yeah?
girl		Yeah.
tom		Great! So... I'll wait for you here, or you wait for me or...something.
girl		We'll figure it out.
tom		Ok!  My name's Tom.
girl		Nice to meet you...
girl		I'm Autumn.
****Dialogues from script :8mm.txt****

cab driver		Where to?
welles		Follow that limousine.  Don't get too close, don't let it get too far away.  Just keep with it.
cab driver		You kidding?
welles		Nope.
cab driver		Uh, listen... you're not supposed to be smoking in here.  I'm sorry, that's company policy...
welles		How about this... every cigarette I smoke, I give you five dollars?
cab driver		Okay... okay, yeah, that'd be good...
amy		Welcome home.
welles		Do you know how much I missed you?
amy		I love you.
welles		I love you.
mrs christian		This is Mister Longdale, my late husband's attorney.
welles		Of what sort?
longdale		You are a private investigator?
welles		Thank you.
welles		I've been privileged to provide services for people I admire.
welles		Mrs. Christian... please, will you sit down a moment?  I want you to listen carefully. What you're talking about is a "snuff film."  But, from what I know, snuff films are a kind of... urban myth.  Like, red light district folklore.  There's no such thing, I can assure you.
welles		You... you need to go to the police.
welles		You don't have any other choice.
amy		I understand.
amy		I know.
amy		Why the gun?
welles		What I'd like, very simply, is access to your archive.  And, now I understand this isn't something you normally do for private citizens...
director		I can give you my card, if your clients want to call me...
director		Listen, maybe I can help after all. Why don't you come on back in... we'll see what we can do.
director		It's horrible, but it'll be your best friend after a few days.  I hope you realize what kind of long shot you're chasing after.
welles		You're gonna be seeing a lot of me. You're sure you don't mind?
welles		 Yeah, about five or six years ago. Anyway, do what you can to dig up your husband's old financial records, look for anything out of the ordinary...
mrs mathews		Yes... ?
welles		 Hello, Mrs. Mathews, my name's Thomas Jones, I'm a state licensed investigator...
welles		I've been hired as an independent contractor by the U.S. Resource Center for Missing Persons as part of an internal audit.  If you have any time over the next few days, I'd like to make an appointment to ask some questions about the disappearance of your daughter.
mrs mathews		I don't understand, who are... ?
welles		I'm sorry, let me explain, the R.C.M.P. is a support organization and archive, not unlike the Center for Missing and Exploited Children in Washington.  I'm sure you've dealt with them before?
mrs mathews		Yes, but...
mrs mathews		Neil... Neil Cole.
welles		 Right, Agent Cole told me he'd call and let you know to expect me.  He didn't call?
mrs mathews		No.
welles		 Well, I'm following up on your daughter, Mary, height; five four, weight; hundred ten pounds, brown eyes, blonde hair.  Born April 24, 1976.  Missing June 11th, 1992.  A runaway, that's how she's listed. Is this information correct... ?
welles		I'm sorry, I know this isn't easy. Is there a more convenient time... ?  Can I buy you lunch, would that be alright?
welles		It's very important you don't let this raise your expectations.  It's not going to effect any ongoing efforts.  All I'm saying is, please know, I'm not here to create any false hope.
mrs mathews		They hired you.  You're like, a private detective?
welles		That's exactly what I am.
mrs mathews		I didn't think there were private detectives anymore, except on TV.
welles		You probably expect me to be wearing a trench coat and a hat.  Drinking whiskey, chasing women and getting beaten up by guys with broken noses. Want to know what it's really like? It's sitting in a car and staring at a hotel window for three days straight, pissing in a plastic bottle, pardon me, because some guy thinks his wife's cheating on him. Glamorous, huh?  And the guy who hired you, he has a hair-lip, dandruff and crooked teeth, and you could have told him the minute you laid eyes on him his wife's cheating, and you don't blame her.
welles		It's refreshing to actually sit down and meet someone face to face, someone nice like you.
welles		So, she didn't leave a note?  She never gave any indication where she might go, before she left?
mrs mathews		No.
welles		She just seemed... depressed... ?
mrs mathews		She didn't seem herself.  For months there never was any way to get her to talk about it.  One night we went to bed... the next morning she was gone.  She took some clothes.
welles		What was she running from?
mrs mathews		I don't know.
welles		If there's anything you feel uncomfortable talking about, tell me, but I have to ask.  Your husband... he committed suicide?
mrs mathews		Yes.
welles		September 4th, 1993.  About a year after Mary disappeared.
mrs mathews		We were divorced by then.  Things fell apart... he was living with a friend...
welles		Why do you think he did it?
mrs mathews		It got to be too much for him.
welles		You have to forgive me, but in these circumstances... with your daughter...  Were there any indications of... any sort of abuse?
mrs mathews		There wasn't anything like that. The police and the FBI people asked, but there wasn't anything happened like that, never.  My husband... his heart broke when Mary left...
welles		I didn't mean to...
mrs mathews		You try going through what we did. Bob couldn't take it, that's all. Christ, there's times when it still seems like I can't either.
welles		I had to ask.  I apologize.
mrs mathews		No one knows what it's like.  You can't even imagine how much it hurts.
mrs mathews		People remember me from the news.  Can you drive me back now?
welles		Of course.
mrs mathews		This is her room.
mrs mathews		The police made a wreck of it, but I put it back exactly how it was. Just how she likes it.
welles		I... I shouldn't take anymore of your time.  Maybe we can finish tomorrow.  I'll call tomorrow...
mrs mathews		Okay.
welles		 I've got a lead I have to follow through.  To be honest, I don't think I'm going to get very far. I miss you.  I love you.
mrs mathews		Doesn't make much sense, does it? When everything's happy, when life's fine and you have every reason to believe there's a God, you don't bother.  Then, something horrible happens... that's when you start praying all the time.  That's when you start going to church.
welles		We're all like that.
mrs mathews		Are you religious?
welles		No.
mrs mathews		You should be.
welles		I've got what I need for my report. There is... there is one thing that bothers me though.
mrs mathews		What?
welles		It's not really my place, but it's not easy for me to set aside the private detective part of me either. See, I know a little about missing persons.  When kids run, they almost always leave a note.  It's guilt. They want to say goodbye.
mrs mathews		There wasn't one.  The police looked.
welles		Do you think the police did a good job?
mrs mathews		I don't know.  I think so.
welles		It is possible... and I know this isn't something you want to hear. Your daughter may have tried to hide a note where she thought you would eventually find it, but where she knew your husband would never find it.  She might have wanted to tell you something...
mrs mathews		No.  You don't have any reason to think that...
welles		If the police focused their search in her room, her belongings, well that'd be only natural, but they may have been looking in the wrong place.
mrs mathews		How... how can you say that to me...?
welles		Will you let me look?
mrs mathews		My husband never laid a hand on her. She would have told me... she would have told me...
mrs mathews		Go ahead and look if you want.  I don't care what you do.
welles		You were right.  I didn't find anything.  I'm going to run and get something to eat. Are you hungry?
mrs mathews		Yes.
welles		Do you ever consider... do you realize that Mary may never come back?
mrs mathews		I think about it everyday.  But, every time the phone rings... every single time, I still think it's her.
welles		It's been six years.
mrs mathews		What am I supposed to do?  Forget her?  Time heals all wounds, right?  I'd choose to know.
welles		Excuse me, I have to use your bathroom.
welles		Is this pretty much it?
welles		Just... just videos?
pierced clerk		What are you looking for?
welles		Nothing.
pierced clerk		Fuck-head.
max		Big date tonight?
welles		 Yeah... guess so.
welles		Pardon me?
max		My boss tells me I have to do more suggestive selling.
max		It's your call, but you're gonna be sorry when you're in one of those everyday situations that call for a battery-operated vagina and you don't have one.
welles		I'll risk it.
max		Thank you for shopping at Adult Bookstore.  Have a nice day.
welles		What are you reading?
max		Once you pick it up you can't put it down.
welles		Catchy title.  What are you really reading?  Hard to believe that book's got any parts worth highlighting.
welles		Truman Capote.
max		I tear off the cover and paste this one on...  You know how it is.
welles		Wouldn't want to embarrass yourself in front of your fellow perverts.
max		 Might get drummed out of the pornographer's union, and then where would I be?
welles		 The way it's going I'm about ready to pack my bags...
welles		 Goodnight.
welles		Remember me?
max		Came back for that battery-operated vagina, right?  Told you you would.
welles		I need some information.  Thought you might be able to help.
max		 Thomas Welles.  Nice picture.
welles		I'll be outside having a cigarette.
max		 Cover me, Beth.  I'm taking a break.
max		I don't know what you're looking for, mister, but so we're clear from the start, I'm straight.
welles		Good for you.
welles		How long you been working there?
max		Three, four years.
welles		What's your name, if you don't mind me asking?
max		Max.
welles		Well, here's the deal, Max.  This thing I'm on right now has something to do with underground pornography. Stuff that's sold under the counter, illegally...
max		There's not much illegal.
welles		Well, whatever there is, whoever's dealing, however it's done, I want to know.  I want a good look, so if you've got that kind of connection, great.  If not, speak now.
max		You're not a cop, are you?  If I ask and you are, you have to tell me.
welles		I'm not a cop.
max		You're a private eye.  Like Shaft.
welles		Not quite.
max		From Pennsylvania.  P.I. from PA. What are you doing out here?
welles		Well, there's the thing; you're not gonna know anything about what I'm doing, but you can make some money.
max		How much?
welles		How much do you make now?
max		Four hundred a week, off the books.
welles		Okay, let's pretend I live in the same fantasy world where you make four hundred a week in that dump. I'll give you six hundred for a few days.
max		Sounds good, pops.
welles		Here's my number if you need it...  When can you start?
max		Tomorrow night, I get off at eight.
welles		See you then.  Oh, and, don't call me "pops."
welles		 ... Hello... ?
max		Come on.
goon		Are you a law enforcement agent or in any way affiliated with law enforcement?
max		Fuck you, Larry.
goon		 Are you a law enforcement... ?
welles		No.
one dealer		We're shutting down in fifteen minutes.  Fifteen minutes.
welles		 What are these?
angry dealer		Mixed hard bondage.  Rape films. Sick shit.  Buy five, get one free.
welles		Anything harder?
angry dealer		There's nothing harder.
welles		Snuff?
angry dealer		What you see is what I got, mister.
welles		You know where I can get it?  I have a lot of money to spend.
angry dealer		There ain't no such thing as snuff. Why don't you fuck off?
large man		You have to pay to come in here.
max		You've got Penthouse, Playboy, Hustler, etc.  Nobody even considers them pornography anymore.  Then, there's mainstream hardcore.  Triple X.  The difference is penetration. That's hardcore.  That whole industry's up in the valley. Writers, directors, porn stars. They're celebrities, or they think they are.  They pump out 150 videos a week.  A week.  They've even got a porno Academy Awards.  America loves pornography.  Anybody tells you they never use pornography, they're lying.  Somebody's buying those videos.  Somebody's out there spending 900 million dollars a year on phone sex.  Know what else?  It's only gonna get worse.  More and more you'll see perverse hardcore coming into the mainstream, because that's evolution.  Desensitization.  Oh my God, Elvis Presley's wiggling his hips, how offensive!  Nowadays, Mtv's showing girls dancing around in thong bikinis with their asses hanging out.  Know what I mean?  For the porn-addict, big tits aren't big enough after a while.  They have to be the biggest tits ever.  Some porn chicks are putting in breast implants bigger than your head, literally.  Soon, Playboy is gonna be Penthouse, Penthouse'll be Hustler, Hustler'll be hardcore, and hardcore films'll be medical films. People'll be jerking off to women laying around with open wounds. There's nowhere else for it to go.
welles		Interesting theory.
max		What you saw tonight, we're not talking about a video some dentist takes home over the weekend.  We're talking about stuff where people get hurt.  Specialty product.
welles		Child pornography.
max		There's two kinds of specialty product; legal and illegal.  Foot fetish, shit films, watersports, bondage, spanking, fisting, she- males, hemaphrodites... it's beyond hardcore, but legal.  This is the kind of hardcore where one guy's going to look at it and throw up, another guy looks at it and falls in love.  Now, with some of the S+M and bondage films, they straddle the line.  How are you supposed to tell if the person tied up with the ball gag in their mouth is a consenting or not?  Step over that line, you're into kiddie porn.  Rape films, but there aren't many.  I've never seen one.
welles		Snuff films.
max		I heard you asking.  That guy wasn't yanking you around.  There's no such thing.
welles		What other ways are there to get illegal films?  Who do you see?
max		First of all, basement sales like tonight aren't gonna last much longer.  It's too risky, one, and two, everything's going on the internet.  Anyone with a computer and enough patience can find anything he wants.  It's heaven for those degenerate chicken-hawks. They're swapping pictures back and forth as fast as their modems can zap 'em.  But, there's still some weird shit under the counter where I work sometimes.  No one knows where it comes from.  That's local underground, where information spreads by word of mouth.  Those are zombies, hardcore junkies.  Their hands are permanently pruned.  They go out in the sun they don't burn, they blister.  Other than that, all I know about is the mail. Classified ads in the paper with hidden codes.  Secret couriers. Credit card orders to dummy corporations.  Interstate wire transfers.  Revolving P.O. boxes. But, if you're asking me who do you go to to get illegal shit... who knows?  That's the whole point -- the seller stays as far away from the buyer as possible, and vice versa, and cops can't trace the deal.  There's ways to do it so nobody knows who anybody is.
welles		How old are you?
max		Twenty-five.
welles		Where are your parents?
max		I don't know, where are yours?
welles		I don't mean any offense... but what are you doing mixed up in all this?
max		I'm not mixed up in anything, hayseed.  What are you talking about?
welles		You just strike me as smart enough to be doing something else.
max		Yeah, I'm a real genius.  What choices have I got?  Fuck, just because I know about stuff like tonight doesn't mean I deal it.  I work a job.  It beats pumping gas, beats making hamburgers.
welles		You're telling me it doesn't get to you?
max		You can't sit there all day watching the parade of losers that comes into that place without going numb.  So what? Am I gonna go off and be a race car driver?  Go to Harvard?  Run for President?  What about you, pops?
welles		What about me?
max		I see a ring on your finger.  You have any kids?
welles		A daughter.
max		So, you have a wife and kid waiting for you in Pennsylvania... what are you doing mixed up in all this?
welles		Good question.
mrs christian		 My husband had five cash accounts he used to temporarily hold stock profits.  Between November of 1991 and March of 1992, he wrote one check out to cash from each account. He wrote these himself...
welles		 Okay...
welles		I'm not positive this means anything.
mrs christian		 One was for two hundred thousand, one dollar and thirteen cents. Another was for three hundred thousand, six hundred fifty four dollars and seventy six cents...
mrs christian		Totalled together, these five checks from five different accounts, they equal one million dollars.
welles		 You're joking.
welles		I'm here.
welles		For a human life... murder on film, no statute of limitations.  Who knows?  It sure could have.  I'd like you to overnight me a copy of those checks, then put them in a safe deposit box.
welles		Send it to me through the post office like we arranged.  No return address.  You dug this up all by yourself?
welles		You're one hell of a detective, Mrs. Christian.
welles		Her name was Mary Anne Mathews.
nun		Yes... I remember Mary
welles		You... you do?  You're sure? Please, Sister, will you take another look, make sure...
nun		She lived here for only about a month, if I recall correctly.  She didn't return one night.  She never came back.  I didn't know what to think...
nun		Do you know what happened to her?
welles		I'm trying to find out.  She was a runaway.  I'm looking into it for her parents.
nun		 Can you get that down for me?
nun		No, the next shelf... there...
welles		What is this?
nun		Those are her belongings.
welles		Her belongings?
nun		That's her suitcase.  I had forgotten it, till you showed me her picture.
welles		Whatever possessed you to keep this all this time?
nun		She was the kindest, sweetest girl you'd ever want to meet.  Oh, I adored her.  I supposed I always hoped she'd be back.  After a time, all I could do was pray she had moved on to better things.  Can you get this suitcase to her parents, if you think it's appropriate?
welles		I'll do what I can.
welles		Cash.
salesperson		Alright.  May I have your phone number, area code first?
welles		No, you may not.
salesperson		Okay.  Fine.
salesperson		I'm required by state law to inform you that, while it's perfectly legal for you to purchase these items, it is illegal for you to use them for any sort of...
welles		Yeah, I know the spiel.  If you could bag it, I'll be on my way, thank you.
salesperson		Certainly, sir.
welles		Come on, Eddie...
welles		That is you, isn't it, Eddie?
welles		 Two one two.
welles		 What do you know about a guy called Dino Velvet?  Dino Velvet Films?
max		 Dino Velvet... yeah, he's like the John Luc Godard of S+M flicks, supposed to be a real weirdo.
max		 His stuff comes out of New York. Bondage and fetish videos, Gothic Hardcore.  Definitely not for the squeamish.
max		You're learning.
max		Out of the back of bondage magazines mostly, but you can find it on the street if you look.  He'll also do commissions, for enough money...
welles		 Alright, I get the picture.
welles		Take a vacation.  I'll pay you four hundred a day, plus expenses.
welles		Consider it.  Meanwhile, dig up whatever Dino Velvet films you can. Get receipts.  I'll call back.
mrs christian		 Hello?
mrs christian		 How are you?  Having any luck?
mrs christian		I've been ordered into bed.  The doctor says I've gotten the flu, or some other wretched ailment.
mrs christian		Nothing more than a bother.  Have you any news for me?
welles		 I've made progress.  I'm in Manhattan.  Once a few more pieces fall into place, I'll drive to you and give you an update.
welles		I've got about five thousand left in cash, but I'll need another thirty, if you approve.
mrs christian		How will I get it to you?
welles		If you have a pencil and paper, I'll tell you how to send it.
max		You didn't say it was gonna be this luxurious.
welles		It's their Presidential Suite.
max		Great.
max		Oh, come on, man, what are we doing in this flea bag?
welles		It's cheap, and people know to mind their own business. What have you got for me?
max		Dino Velvet.
welles		Max... wake up...
max		Wha... ?
welles		 Who is this, in the mask?  Who is he?
max		He's one of the lunatics Dino uses. He's in a bunch of these.
max		Why?  He have something to do with whatever you're into?
welles		No... it's nothing... that's not him.
welles		Who is he?
max		I told you, he's one of Dino Velvet's stock players...
welles		Who is he, his name?
max		Nobody knows his name.  That's his thing.  He always wears a mask.  You never see his face.  He calls himself "Machine," that's what they call him.  Machine.
max		They say he's half brain-dead from all the steroids he's using.
max		He's a brutal motherfucker, man.  He loves what he does for a living.
welles		You don't need to be here.
max		What kind of Junior P.I. would I be if I didn't go with you?
thug		You're in the wrong place.
welles		We're looking for Mr. Velvet.
thug		He's not here.
welles		Why don't you tell him we're here to give him a large sum of money.  If he's not interested, we'll go.
thug		You should leave now, before I have to remove you.
welles		You heard the boss, Milo.
dino velvet		Come in.  Make yourself comfortable.
welles		It's an honor to meet you.  Thank you for seeing us.
dino velvet		What can I do for you today?
welles		I'd like to commission a work.  I'm a great admirer of yours.
dino velvet		Flattering.  And, who's your colorful little chum?
welles		A fellow investor.
dino velvet		Hmm.
max		You're the only one still shooting film and transferring it to video. Nobody appreciates that kind of integrity anymore... the grain, the gritty look you get.
dino velvet		Well, I'm glad you appreciate it.  What would you say is your favorite piece?
max		I know if I had to pick, it'd be "Choke," or "Devil."
welles		"Devil" frightened me as much as it excited me, but I'd be hard pressed to choose a favorite.
dino velvet		You said something about money.
welles		Yes.  What we're looking for is rather specific.
welles		That's five thousand dollars.
dino velvet		Is it?
welles		Five thousand now, five thousand on delivery. Two women, one white and one black, as long as they have large breasts. Hard bondage, or course.  Other than that, trusting your artistic interpretation, I have only two stipulations.
dino velvet		And they are?
welles		I want to watch you work.
dino velvet		I'll consider it.
welles		And the other performer... it has to be that monster you use... the man in the mask.
dino velvet		Machine.
welles		If it's not him, there's no deal.
dino velvet		He might be interested... but it would mean another five thousand.
welles		We can do that.
dino velvet		Well, well, I'll have to put my thinking-cap on about all this. You'll leave the money as a deposit?  Very good.
dino velvet		You have a beautiful face... the way the light hits it.  I'd like to take your picture.  You don't mind?
welles		I'd rather you didn't.
dino velvet		What's the problem?
welles		I'm camera shy.
dino velvet		You trust me to keep your money, but not to take your picture?
welles		Those are two different kinds of trust.  Thank you for your time.  I hope we can do business.
welles		 So, what do you say?
dino velvet		 I'll do this for you.  Fifteen thousand dollars.
dino velvet		 He's in.  It will be his pleasure.
welles		 Where's that?
max		What's next?
welles		I'm trying to figure that out myself.  I have to see Machine without his mask.
max		Still don't want to tell me what you're doing?
welles		Nope.
welles		This is for you.
max		What's this?
welles		It's money.  People use it to purchase goods and services.
max		Look... that's awful generous and everything...
welles		It's not my money.  The woman I got it from is never going to give it a second thought.  Let's not make a big deal out of this, okay?  Go be a race car driver.  Go run for President.  Whatever.
welles		I'll see you around.
dino velvet		There you are.  Come join us.
welles		 Hello.
dino velvet		You brought the money?
welles		 Right here.
dino velvet		Excellent.
welles		Where are the women?
dino velvet		They should be here any minute.
welles		 What are these for?
dino velvet		Hmm?  Oh, the knifes?  They're just props.  Nice, aren't they?
welles		Sure.
dino velvet		Machine and I were just talking about knifes.  The beauty of knifes...
dino velvet		He was saying how fascinated he is by their simple ability to be sharp. The ability of a piece of metal to be so thin that it is almost nothing...
dino velvet		So close to nothingness that it cuts with minimum effort, because it's so non-intrusive.  Flesh is fooled.  It blooms open as the blade widens, but by then it's too late, because the knife's already doing its pure, simple damage.
dino velvet		Ah, ours guests have arrived.
dino velvet		Mister Welles... would you be so kind as to remove any firearms from your person?
welles		What are you... ?
dino velvet		Take out your gun!
dino velvet		Slowly.  Let me see it.
dino velvet		Empty the gun onto the table, very carefully.
welles		Look, I don't know what this...
dino velvet		Shut up, cunt!  Do exactly as I say, or I'll put this arrow through your throat.
eddie		Is that him?
dino velvet		 Put the gun down, take the handcuffs.  Handcuff yourself to the bed.
dino velvet		 Didn't know what to make of you at first, and you certainly had Eddie on pins and needles.  But, lo and behold, from out of the blue came an old business acquaintance to explain everything...
eddie		This is the fucker?  Motherfucker, doesn't look like anything...
eddie		Doesn't look like shit.
dino velvet		 You remember Mr. Longdale, don't you?
welles		I remember him.
longdale		Let's get this over with.
dino velvet		Fine idea.
dino velvet		You're going to go get the film you received from Mrs. Christian, bring it here and put it in my hand.  And to save time, so we make this as efficient as possible, there's an incentive...
welles		No...
dino velvet		Friend of yours?
welles		Look, he's got nothing to do with this... let him go...
dino velvet		Can you guess what I'm going to say next?
welles		He doesn't know anything... he's got nothing to do with this...
dino velvet		Bring the film, or we kill him.
welles		I'll get it.  It's in a safe deposit box, in the city...
dino velvet		How cooperative.  Longdale will keep you company.
dino velvet		Don't let Longdale's questionable choice of weapon give you any ideas. If his fey little gun puts enough little holes in you, you'll be just as dead... and so will Max.
eddie		Move it, dirtbag... !
dino velvet		 Do hurry.
welles		You were the middleman, am I right? Old man Christian wasn't about to go shopping for a snuff film himself.
longdale		Wouldn't exactly have been possible for a man of his stature.
welles		So, he sent you, gave you the money, his errand-boy.  And if you refused, it wasn't like you could tell anyone your pervert boss just asked you to get him a snuff film.  That's the beauty of lawyer/client privilege.
longdale		That's trust.  Mr. Christian trusted me implicitly.
welles		Must have paid you a lot, for you to risk everything.  Would've had to have cut yourself a real nice piece of money.
longdale		I was well compensated.
welles		That's why you got scared when Mrs. Christian hired me.  You knew about the film, figured it had to be in that safe.  How'd you find me?
longdale		Never mind how I found you.
welles		Followed me... must have freaked out when you saw me closing in on your buddies...
longdale		They're no friends of mine.
welles		Except, you're willing commit murder with them.
longdale		None of this would be happening if you would have left it alone.  If you weren't digging up a girl who died six years ago.  A girl no one even remembers.
welles		Mary Anne Mathews, that was her name.  Her mom remembers her.
welles		You found these smut dealers and asked to buy a snuff film, right? Wanted them to find you one.  Well, they didn't find you one, Longdale, they went out and made you one...
longdale		Shut up.
welles		Mary Anne Mathews was alive till you paid money to have her murdered.
longdale		Shut your mouth and drive!
welles		Did it get him off, huh, watching them cut her up?  Tell me, because I really want to understand.  Did he jerk off to it?  You watch it with him, sit there giving him a handjob while you both watched... ?
welles		Just tell me.  Tell me some more of the secrets you and Christian shared. What kind of degenerate pervert was he really?  What the fuck did he want with a snuff film?
longdale		You're asking me why?
welles		I'm asking.
longdale		A man like Mr. Christian, a great man... all his money, all his power... a man who attained everything there was to attain...
welles		Why did he buy a film of some poor, lost girl getting butchered?
longdale		Isn't it incredibly obvious?
welles		Enlighten me.
longdale		Because he could.  He did it because he could.  What other reason were you looking for?
longdale		You've got four minutes till I call Mr. Velvet and let him know there's a problem.
manager		May I show you to a booth...
welles		No, I've got it.
longdale		You almost went over your limit.
welles		Fuck you.
longdale		Give me the film.
longdale		Give me the film.
welles		Go ahead, shoot me.  Then try driving to Brooklyn with my brains all over the windshield.
welles		No!!
welles		You fuckers!
eddie		You're a dead man.
dino velvet		Leave him alone.
eddie		Fuck off.
eddie		What the fuck... !
dino		I promised him to Machine.
eddie		... sorry...
dino velvet		First things first.  You might want to watch this, Mr. Welles...
welles		Don't... please...
dino velvet		And so it ends.  It's as if she never existed.
dino velvet		Don't blame yourself.  You were in way over your head.
welles		Motherfuckers.  Small time, motherfuckers... !  Tell me something...
welles		I know why you did it, Dino, Eddie... but, why'd the lawyer do it?  Must have been a helluva lot of money, right?  One fuckload of money...
welles		So, what are you all still doing small time, huh?  What are you still doing in the sewer, Eddie?! Christian gave Longdale a million dollars to find him a snuff film. How much did you ever see... ?
eddie		What's he talking about?
welles		One million dollars, Dino.  How much did he tell you he had...
longdale		He's lying.
welles		Look at him.  You think he played it square?  How much did he give you, how much did he keep for himself?
eddie		What the fuck's he talking about?
longdale		Stay away from me.
dino velvet		What's going on, Longdale?  Did this happen?
eddie		You sell us short, you fuck?
longdale		Stay back!  You have a gun, Eddie, show it to me.  Now!
longdale		Put it on the ground, kick it here...
eddie		You fucking lawyer...
longdale		Move back!  All of you... move!
dino velvet		What were you thinking?
longdale		Back off!  Everything's been taken care of, and I'm leaving now...
dino velvet		You're not going anywhere if you fucked us, lawyer.
longdale		I'm leaving.
eddie		You got the guts, tough guy?  Gonna kill us all, is that it?
dino velvet		You betrayed us.
longdale		Stay where you are!
longdale		Keep back!
dino velvet		You're not gonna live through this.
longdale		Our business is done, I'm leaving, no one's going to stop me...
dino velvet		Fuck you!
eddie		Fuck.
machine		He's mine!
welles		No, no, no... please, don't kill me... please... !
eddie		Do him good.
welles		Back off, Eddie...
welles		Stop Eddie!
welles		 I swear to Christ I'll shoot you in the back... !
welles		Come back, or I put a hole in him.
welles		You might make it to your gun, but not before I shoot Machine.  And if I have to shoot him because of you, and I don't kill him, right after he kills me, he's gonna kill you.
welles		 Take off the mask.
welles		Take it off!
machine		You got one bullet.
machine		The only choice you have now, is which one of us kills you.
machine		Get the gun!
amy		 Hello?
amy		 Tom?  Where have you been... ?
welles		 Amy, just listen.  Take Cindy and get out of the house.  Do it now. Go to a hotel and stay there...
welles		 I'm okay.  Please, honey, I can't explain.  Don't use the phone, just pack a bag and get out.  I'm on my way.  I'll be back at the house in three hours.  Call me from the hotel when you get there
welles		Just do it, Amy, please, go.
welles		 Honey... ?
welles		I don't know if I can do that.
amy		What happened to you?
amy		What's going on, Tom?  What happened?
welles		I can't tell you, Amy.  You know I can't.  You have to trust me...
amy		Tom...
amy		Why haven't you called?  Why don't you answer your phone?
welles		I don't know.  I'm sorry...
amy		You're sorry?  What was I supposed to think?
amy		You owe me an explanation.  You can't treat me like this.
welles		I wanted to call.  I couldn't.
amy		You couldn't?
welles		You don't understand...
amy		No, I don't, because you're not telling me anything!
welles		I was in hell.  If I called you... if I heard your voice... it would have been so easy for me to quit. I couldn't do that.
amy		You should have.
welles		Amy, I'm not going to let anything happen to us.
amy		Look where we are.  Look at yourself.  You son of a bitch, you don't have any idea what you're putting me through...
welles		I don't know what to say
amy		You're killing me...
welles		Don't...
amy		What was I supposed to think happened to you?!
welles		Amy...
welles		Forgive me.
welles		We have to stay here a few days. I'll get more clothing from the house if I can.  I'm sorry.  We're going to be okay.
amy		Who are you calling?
welles		Mrs. Christian.
amy		What?
welles		She's all I've got.  She's the only witness.
amy		Tom... she's dead.
welles		I just talked to her.
amy		How could you not know?
amy		Promise you'll stay.
welles		Promise you won't go back there, wherever you were.  Whatever it was, forget it.
amy		Promise me.
welles		I promise.
welles		Hello, Eddie.
welles		Put your hands on your head.
welles		Put your hands behind your head, lock your finger together, get down on your knees.
welles		I owe you a few.
welles		Don't go anywhere.
eddie		I'm gonna kill you.
welles		Don't bore me with that bullshit.
eddie		How'd you find me here?
welles		Don't ask questions.
eddie		Fuck you!
welles		Starting to recognize a pattern?
eddie		What do you want?
welles		Who is Machine?
eddie		I don't know...
welles		I want his name.
eddie		I told you, I don't know.
eddie		What the fuck am I gonna protect that freak for?  He was Dino's boy, not mine.  He shows up with his mask on, leaves with his mask on.  Nobody knows.
welles		Okay, we'll come back to that.  So, six years ago a guy contacts you, through the classifieds, over the phone, however he does it.  It's Longdale, looking for a snuff film. And you, entrepreneur that you are, tell him you can hook him up.
eddie		Yeah, the fucking lawyer.
welles		Told him you could get him a snuff film.
eddie		Yeah.
welles		How much did he pay you?
eddie		Thirty thousand each, that fucking cocksucker.
welles		That's all?  Thirty each.  That's all it took for you to murder her?
eddie		It was a lot of fucking money.
welles		So... you brought Dino in, and he brought Machine.  And, one day, a girl walked into your office because you had an ad in the paper for models.  And she never walked out.
eddie		Something like that.
welles		What did you do, knock her out, shoot her up... ?
eddie		What the fuck do you want from me?
welles		I want to know.  I want to know exactly what you did to her!
eddie		Fuck you then, you want to know?  I talked her up, told her how beautiful she was, told her she was gonna be a star.  I told her I was gonna get her a screen test, and while I'm doing that, I got her a soda and dropped a mickey.  When it was dark enough, I rang Dino and told him it was go time, I put her in the trunk of my car and we went and we fucking did it.  That's what happened.  She's dead.  She's been dead a long fucking time.  Nobody fucking cares!
eddie		You wanted to know, now you know.
eddie		That's right, motherfucker, cut me loose.  Be a man.
welles		Show me!
welles		Show me where you did it, on the map, exactly where you did it.
eddie		Why?
welles		Because we're going there.
eddie		What are we doing here?
eddie		I don't know.  I felt like it.  I never saw anyone get done before.
welles		You enjoy it?
eddie		Made me sick, but what did I care? What did I care if some hump wants to beat off to that.  It was just something I was doing for money.
welles		Tell me what happened.
eddie		What do you want to know?  You saw it, you saw the loop...
welles		Nobody saw you bring her in?
eddie		There wasn't nobody around.  This place was a shit-hole.  I backed up the car to the door and we carried her in, like groceries.  Dino made her eat a bunch of pills, we laid out the plastic, put film in the camera and Machine went to work.
welles		What did you do with her body?
eddie		Took it out the bathroom window. Buried it in the woods.
welles		Show me.
eddie		What are you thinking you're gonna do... ?
welles		Keep moving.
eddie		Where do you think you're taking this, huh?  Gonna be a big hero, avenge that little girl's death? Gonna make everything right with the world?  How you gonna do that... ?
eddie		You can't go to the cops.  All you can do is cut me loose and walk away, because you got nothing...
welles		Stop talking.
eddie		You got absolute zero.
welles		Show me where you buried her.
eddie		I don't know...  ... out there somewhere.
welles		Where?  Show me where.
eddie		I fucking don't know.  What do you think... we weren't burying treasure.  We didn't pace it out so we could come back and get it.  We dug a hole and we put her in it. Your guess is as good as mine.
eddie		You'll never find her.  Nobody ever will, and even if they did, it doesn't mean nothing.  Bring in the cops, bring in the F.B.I., fuck 'em all.  Without the film, it never happened.  Don't you get it?  It's over.  You can't do anything.
welles		I can kill you.  I can leave you out here, just like you left her.
eddie		Do it.
welles		Don't think I won't.
eddie		Do it!  Put me out of my misery so I don't have to listen to you whining anymore.  You think it's so easy?
welles		Easy enough for you.
eddie		I never killed anyone.
welles		That's right, you just stood there and watched, because you "felt like it."  Almost makes you worse.
eddie		What do you want?  You want me to fall to my knees and start crying like a baby... ?
eddie		Where you going?  You're the one with the gun.  Aren't I defenseless enough?  Come on...
eddie		Go ahead and kill me.  Kill me with that gun, your gun, right, registered in your name?  Dig the hole yourself, with your bare hands, bury the body with your bullets in it.  Fucking do it!
eddie		You pussy.
eddie		Fucking pussy!
welles		 Mrs. Mathews?  It's Thomas.  Do you remember, I was there a few weeks ago... asking about your daughter...
welles		 When I... when I was there with you, her diary, in your attic, in silverware.  If you read it, you'll know what I'm telling you is true...
welles		She went to California, to Los Angeles... she wanted to start over. She wanted to be an actress...
welles		Mrs. Mathews, your daughter is dead. She's dead.
mrs mathews		Who is this... ?
welles		Someone... some men, they took your daughter and they drugged her, and they took her to a motel room... they did terrible things to her...
welles		They brought her into the room... one man, he put a knife to her throat and he raped her...
mrs mathews		No...
welles		He raped her and...and...and he murdered her...he cut her up with knifes...
welles		They killed her, and they took her out in the forest somewhere and they buried her...
welles		They murdered her, Mrs. Mathews, I'm sorry.  It happened a month after she ran away.  She's been dead all this time...
welles		I'm sorry, I'm so sorry... there wasn't anything anyone could do...
agent		There you are, Mr. Welles, confirmed through to Kennedy.  Gate 32B.
agent		Mr. Welles?
agent		Gate 32B.
welles		 Alright, thanks for your help.
welles		 Okay, thanks anyway.
welles		 He's a body-builder, stands just under six feet...
welles		 Yes, I'll hold.
welles		 Christopher Higgins.  Thirty- fifteen, Thirty Fifth Street. Where?  Astoria, Queens.
welles		Hello?!  Amy?
amy		Tom?!
amy		How much forgiveness do you think I have in me?
welles		I can't talk about it yet... not yet.
welles		Why... why... ?
amy		Tom... ?
welles		I have to tell you... I have to tell you what happened.  I have to tell you everything, but we can't tell anyone else.  No one else can ever know.
welles		You're all I've got.  You're all I've ever had.  You're the only one who can save me.
****Dialogues from script :a_few_good_men.txt****

written by		 Aaron Sorkin
downey		 You're lucky it's us, Willy.
jo		I'm requesting... I'm... Captain, I'd like to request that I be the attorney assigned to rep -- I'd like to request that it be myself who is assigned to represent --  "That it be myself who is assigned to represent"? ...Good, Jo, that's confidence inspiring.
gibbs		Jo, come on in.
jo		Thank you, sir.
gibbs		Captain West, this is Lt. Commander Galloway. Jo, you know Mike Lawrence.
jo		Yes sir.  Captain, I appreciate your seeing me on such short notice.
west		I understand there was some trouble over the weekend down in Cuba.
jo		Yes sir... This past Friday evening. Two marines, Corporal Harold Dawson and Private Louden Downey, entered the barracks room of a PFC William Santiago and assaulted him. Santiago died at the base hospital approximately an hour later. The NIS agent who took their statements maintains they were trying to prevent Santiago from naming them in a fenceline shooting incident. They're scheduled to have a hearing down in Cuba at 4:00 this afternoon.
lawrence		What's the problem?
jo		Dawson and Downey are both recruiting poster marines and Santiago was known to be a screw-up. I was thinking that it sounded an awful lot like a code red.
west		 Christ.
jo		I'd like them moved up to Washington and assigned counsel. Someone who can really look into this. Someone who possesses not only the legal skill, but a familiarity with the inner workings of the military. In short, Captain, I'd like to suggest that... I be the one who, that it be me who is assigned to represent them.  Myself.
west		Joanne, why don't you get yourself a cup of coffee.
jo		Thank you, sir, I'm fine.
west		Joanne, I'd like you to leave the room so we can talk about you behind your back.
jo		Certainly, sir.
west		I thought this Code Red shit wasn't going on anymore.
lawrence		With the marines at GITMO? Who the hell knows what goes on down there.
west		Well lets find out before the rest of the world does, this thing could get messy. What about this woman?
lawrence		Jo's been working a desk at internal affairs for what, almost a year now.
west		And before that?
gibbs		She disposed of three cases in two years.
west		Three cases in two years? Who was she handling, the Rosenbergs?
gibbs		She's not cut out for litigation.
lawrence		She's a hall of an investigator, Jerry --
gibbs		In Internal Affairs, sure. She can crawl up a lawyer's ass with the best of 'em, but when it comes to trial work --
west		I know. All passion, no street smarts. Bring her back in.
west		 Commander, we're gonna move the defendants up here in the morning.
jo		Thank you, sir.
west		And I'll have Division assign them counsel...
jo		 But... not me.
west		From what I understand from your colleagues, you're much too valuable in your present assignment to be wasted on what I'm sure will boil down to a five minute plea bargain and a week's worth of paper work.
jo		Sir --
west		Don't worry about it. I promise you, division'll assign the right man for the job.
kaffee		 Alright, let's get two!
second base		Sorry!
kaffee		Nothing to be sorry about, Sherby. Just look the ball into your glove.
kaffee		You gotta trust me, Sherby. You keep your eyes open, your chances of catching the ball increase by a factor of ten.
spradling		Kaffee!
kaffee		Let's try it again.
spradling		Kaffee!!
kaffee		 Dave. You seem upset and distraught.
spradling		We were supposed to meet in your office 15 minutes ago to talk about the McDermott case. You're stalling on this thing. Now we got this done and I mean now, or no kidding, Kaffee, I'll hang your boy from a fuckin' yardarm.
kaffee		A yardarm?  Sherby, does the Navy still hang people from yardarms?
sherby		 I don't think so, Danny.
kaffee		 Let's go, let's get two!
spradling		I'm gonna charge him with possession and being under the influence while on duty. Plead guilty and I'll recommend 30 days in the brig with loss of rank and pay.
kaffee		It was oregano, Dave, it was ten dollars worth of oregano.
spradling		Yeah, well your client thought it was marijuana.
kaffee		My client's a moron, that's not against the law.
kaffee		 Way to keep your head in the play, Lester. Walk it off!
spradling		I've got people to answer to just like you, I'm gonna charge him.
kaffee		With what, possession of a condiment?
spradling		Kaffee --
kaffee		Dave, I've tried to help you out of this, but if you ask for tall time, I'm gonna file a motion to dismiss.
spradling		You won't got it.
kaffee		I will get it. And if the MTD is denied, I'll file a motion in liminee seeking to obtain evidentiary ruling in advance, and after that I'm gonna file against pre-trial confinement, and you're gonna spend an entire summer going blind on paperwork because a Signalman Second Class bought and smoked a dime bag of oregano.
spradling		B Misdemeanor, 20 days in the brig.
kaffee		C Misdemeanor, 15 days restricted duty.
spradling		I don't know why I'm agreeing to this.
kaffee		'Cause you have wisdom beyond your years. Dave, can you play third base?
whitaker		'Morning.
lawyers		 'Morning Captain Whitaker.
whitaker		Sam, how's the baby?
sam		I think she's ready to say her first word any day now.
whitaker		How can you tell?
sam		She just looks like she has something to say.
kaffee		Excuse me, sorry I'm late.
whitaker		I'm sure you don't have a good excuse, so I won't force you to come up with a bad one.
kaffee		Thank you, Isaac, that's nice of you.
whitaker		Sit-down, this first one's for you.
whitaker		 You're moving up in the world, Danny, you've been requested by Division.
kaffee		Requested to do what?
whitaker		Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. A marine corporal named Dawson illegally fires a round from his weapon over the fenceline and into Cuban territory.
kaffee		What's a fenceline?
whitaker		Sam?
sam		A big wall separating the good guys from the bad guys.
kaffee		Teachers pet.
whitaker		PFC William Santiago threatens to rat on Dawson to the Naval investigative Service. Dawson and another member of his squad, PFC Louden Downey, they go into Santiago's room, tie him up, and stuff a rag down his throat. An hour later, Santiago's dead. Attending physician says the rag was treated with some kind of toxin.
kaffee		They poisoned the rag?
whitaker		Not according to them.
kaffee		What do they say?
whitaker		Not much. They're being flown up here tomorrow and on Thursday at 0600 you'll catch a transport down to Cuba for the day to find out what you can. Meantime, go across the yard and see Lt. Commander Joanne Galloway. She's the one who had 'em brought up here. She'll fill you in on whatever she has. Any questions?
kaffee		The flight to Cuba, was that 0600 in the morning, sir?
whitaker		It seems important to Division that this one be handled by the book, so I'm assigning co-counsel. Any volunteers?
sam		No.
whitaker		Sam.
sam		I have a stack of paper on my desk --
whitaker		Work with Kaffee on this.
sam		Doing what? Kaffee'll finish this up in four days.
whitaker		Do various... administrative... you know... things. Back-up. Whatever.
sam		In other words I have no responsibilities whatsoever.
whitaker		Right.
sam		My kinda case.
kaffee		Hi.  -- Commander Galloway.
kaffee		 About a briefing.
jo		You're the attorney that Division assigned?
kaffee		I'm lead counsel. This is Sam Weinberg.
sam		I have no responsibilities here whatsoever.
jo		 Come in, please, have a seat...
jo		 Lieutenant, how long have you been in the Navy?
kaffee		Going on nine months now.
jo		And how long have you been out of law school?
kaffee		A little over a year.
jo		 I see.
kaffee		Have I done something wrong?
jo		No. It's just that when I petitioned Division to have counsel assigned, I was hoping I'd be taken seriously.
kaffee		 No offense taken, if you were wondering.
sam		Commander, Lt. Kaffee's generally considered the best litigator in our office. He's successfully plea bargained 44 cases in nine months.
kaffee		One more, and I got a set of steak knives.
jo		Have you ever been in a courtroom?
kaffee		I once had my drivers license suspended.
sam		Danny --
kaffee		Commander, from what I understand, if this thing goes to court, they won't need a lawyer, they'll need a priest.
jo		No. They'll need a lawyer.
jo		 Dawson's family has been contacted. Downey's closest living relative is Ginny Miller, his aunt on his mother's side, she hasn't been Contacted yet.
jo		 Would you like me to take care of that?
kaffee		Sure, if you feel like it.
jo		One of the people you'll be speaking to down there is the barracks C.O., Colonel Nathan Jessep, I assume you've heard of him.
kaffee		 Who hasn't?
sam		 He's been in the papers lately. He's expected to be appointed Director of Operations for the National Security Counsel.
jo		These are letters that Santiago wrote in his 8 months at GITMO --
sam		 Guantanamo Bay.
kaffee		I know that one.
jo		He wrote to his recruiter, the fleet commander, HQ, Atlantic, even his senator. He wanted a transfer. Nobody was listening. You with me?
kaffee		Yes.
jo		This last letter to the Naval investigative Service --
jo		 -- where he offers information about Corporal Dawson's fenceline shooting in exchange for a transfer, was just a last ditch effort.
kaffee		Right. Is that all?
jo		 Lieutenant, this letter makes it look like your client had a motive to kill Santiago.
kaffee		Gotcha.  And Santiago is... who?
jo		 The victim.
kaffee		 Am I correct in assuming that these letters don't paint a flattering picture of marine corps life in Guantanamo Bay?
jo		Yes, among other --
kaffee		And am I further right in assuming that a protracted investigation of this incident might cause some embarrassment for the security counsel guy.
jo		Colonel Jessep, yes, but --
kaffee		Twelve years.
jo		I'm sorry?
kaffee		Twelve years. I can get it knocked down to Involuntary Manslaughter. Twelve years.
jo		You haven't talked to a witness, you haven't looked at a piece of paper.
kaffee		Pretty impressive, huh?
jo		You're gonna have to go deeper than just --
kaffee		Commander, do you have some sort of jurisdiction here that I should know about?
jo		My job is to make sure you do your job. I'm special counsel for Internal Affairs, so my jurisdiction's pretty much in your face. Read the letters. You're not under any obligation, but I'd appreciate a report when you get back from Cuba.
kaffee		Sure.
jo		You're dismissed.
kaffee		Sorry, I always forget that.
sam		He's a little preoccupied.  The team's playing Bethesda Medical next week.
jo		Tell your friend not to get cute down there.  The marines in Guantanimo are fanatical.
sam		About what?
jo		About being marines.
jessep		Who the fuck is PFC William T. Santiago.
kendrick		Sir, Santiago is a member of Second Platoon, Delta.
jessep		Yeah, well, apparently he's not very happy down here at Shangri-La, cause he's written letters to everyone but Santa Claus asking for a transfer. And now he's telling tales about a fenceline shooting.
jessep		 Matthew?
markinson		I'm appalled, sir.
jessep		You're appalled? This kid broke the Chain of Command and he ratted on a man of his unit, to say nothing of the fact that he's a U.S. Marine and it would appear that he can't run from here to there without collapsing from heat exhaustion. What the fuck's going on over at Windward, Matthew?
markinson		Colonel, I think perhaps it would be better to hold this discussion in private.
kendrick		That won't be necessary, Colonel, I'll handle the situation.
markinson		The same way you handled the Curtis Barnes incident? You're doing something wrong, Lieutenant this --
kendrick		My methods of leadership are --
markinson		Don't interrupt me, I'm still your superior officer.
jessep		And I'm yours, Matthew.
jessep		 I want to know what we're gonna do about this.
markinson		I think Santiago should be transferred off the base. Right away.
jessep		He's that bad, huh?
markinson		Not only that, but word of this letter's bound to get out. The kid's gonna get his ass kicked.
jessep		Transfer Santiago. Yes I suppose you're right. I suppose that's the thing to do. Wait. Wait. I've got a better idea. Let's transfer the whole squad off the base. Let's -- on second thought -- Windward. The whole Windward division, let's transfer 'em off the base. Jon, go on out there and get those boys down off the fence, they're packing their bags.  Tom!
orderly		Sir!
jessep		Got me the President on the phone, we're surrendering our position in Cuba.
orderly		Yes sir!
jessep		Wait a minute, Tom.
jessep		 Don't call the President just yet. Maybe we should consider this for a second. Maybe -- and I'm just spit balling here -- but maybe we as officers have a responsibility to train Santiago. Maybe we as officers have a responsibility to this country to see that the men and women charged with its security are trained professionals. Yes. I'm certain I once read that somewhere. And now I'm thinking that your suggestion of transferring Santiago, while expeditious, and certainly painless, might not be in a manner of speaking, the American way. Santiago stays where he is. We're gonna train the lad. You're in charge, Jon. Santiago doesn't make 4.1 on his next fitness report, I'm gonna blame you. Then I'm gonna kill you.
kendrick		Yes sir.
markinson		I think that's a mistake, Colonel.
jessep		Matthew, I believe I will have that word in private with you now. Jon, that's all. Why don't you and I have lunch at the "O" club, we'll talk about the training of young William.
kendrick		Yes sir, I'd be delighted to hear any suggestions you have.
jessep		Dismissed.
jessep		 Matthew, sit, please.
jessep		 What do you think of Kendrick?
markinson		 I don't know that --
jessep		I think he's kind of a weasel, myself. But he's an awfully good officer, and in the end we see eye to eye on the best way to run a marine corps unit. We're in the business of saving lives, Matthew. That's a responsibility we have to take pretty seriously. And I believe that taking a marine who's not yet up to the job and packing him off to another assignment, puts lives in danger.
jessep		 We go back a while. We went to the Academy together, we were commissioned together, we did our tours in Vietnam together. But I've been promoted up through the chain with greater speed and success than you have. Now if that's a source of tension or embarrassment for you, well, I don't give a shit. We're in the business of saving lives, Captain Markinson. Don't ever question my orders in front of another officer.
downey		Hal?
downey		 Is this Washington, D.C.?
kaffee		Alright, let's get tough out there!
jo		Excuse me.
kaffee		You want to suit up? We need all the help we can get.
jo		No, thank you, I can't throw and catch things.
kaffee		That's okay, neither can they.
jo		I wanted to talk to you about Corporal Dawson and Private Downey.
kaffee		Say again?
jo		Dawson and Downey.
kaffee		 Those names sound like they should mean something to me, but I'm just not --
jo		Dawson! Downey! Your clients!
kaffee		The Cuba thing! Yes! Dawson and Downey.  I've done something wrong again, haven't I?
jo		I was wondering why two guys have been in a jail cell since this morning while their lawyer is outside hitting a ball.
kaffee		We need the practice.
jo		That wasn't funny.
kaffee		It was a little funny.
jo		Lieutenant, would you feel very insulted if I recommended to your supervisor that he assign different counsel?
kaffee		Why?
jo		I don't think you're fit to handle this defense.
kaffee		You don't even know me. Ordinarily it takes someone hours to discover I'm not fit to handle a defense.
kaffee		 Oh come on, that was damn funny.
jo		I do know you. Daniel AlliStair Kaffee, born June 8th, 1964 at Boston Mercy Hospital. Your father's Lionel Kaffee, former Navy Judge Advocate and Attorney General, of the United States, died 1985. You went to Harvard Law on a Navy scholarship, probably because that's what your father wanted you to do, and now you're just treading water for the three years you've gotta serve in the JAG Corps, just kinda layin' low til you can get out and get a real job. And if that's the situation, that's fine, I won't tell anyone. But my feeling is that if this case is handled in the same fast-food, slick-ass, Persian Bazaar manner with which you seem to handle everything else, something's gonna get missed. And I wouldn't be doing my job if I allowed Dawson and Downey to spend any more time in prison than absolutely necessary, because their attorney had pre- determined the path of least resistance.
kaffee		Wow.  I'm sexually aroused, Commander.
jo		I don't think your clients murdered anybody.
kaffee		What are you basing this on?
jo		There was no intent.
kaffee		The doctor's report says that Santiago died of asphyxiation brought on by acute lactic acidosis, and that the nature of the acidosis strongly suggests poisoning.  Now, I don't know what any of that means, but it sounds pretty bad.
jo		Santiago died at one a.m. At three the doctor was unable to determine the cause of death, but two hours later he said it was poison.
kaffee		Oh, now I see what you're saying. It had to be Professor Plum in the library with the candlestick.
jo		I'm gonna speak to your supervisor.
kaffee		Okay. You go straight up Pennsylvania Avenue. It's a big white house with pillars in front.
jo		Thank you.
kaffee		I don't think you'll have much luck, though. I was assigned by Division, remember? Somebody over there thinks I'm a good lawyer. So while I appreciate your interest and admire your enthusiasm, I think I can pretty much handle things myself.
jo		Do you know what a code red is?
jo		 What a pity.
dawson		Sir, Lance Corporal Harold W. Dawson, sir. Rifle Security Company Windward, Second Platoon, Delta.
kaffee		Someone hasn't been working and playing well with others, Harold.
dawson		Sir, yes sir!
downey		Sir, PFC Louden Downey.
kaffee		I'm Daniel Kaffee, this is Sam Weinerg, you can sitdown.
kaffee		 Is this your signature?
dawson		Yes sir.
kaffee		You don't have to call me sir.  Is this your signature?
downey		Sir, yes sir.
kaffee		And you certainly don't have to do it twice in one sentence. Harold, what's a Code Red?
dawson		Sir, a Code Red is a disciplinary engagement.
kaffee		What does that mean, exactly?
dawson		Sir, a marine falls out of line, it's up to the men in his unit to get him back on track.
kaffee		What's a garden variety Code Red?
dawson		Sir?
kaffee		Harold, you say sir and I turn around and look for my father. Danny, Daniel, Kaffee. Garden variety; typical. What's a basic Code Red?
dawson		Sir, a marine has refused to bathe on a regular basis. The men in his squad would give him a G.I. shower.
kaffee		What's that?
dawson		Scrub brushes, brillo pads, steel wool...
sam		Beautiful.
kaffee		Was the attack on Santiago a Code Red?
dawson		Yes sir.
kaffee		 Do you ever talk?
dawson		Sir, Private Downey will answer any direct questions you ask him.
kaffee		Swell. Private Downey, the rag you stuffed in Santiago's mouth, was there poison on it?
downey		No sir.
kaffee		Silver polish, turpentine, anti- freeze...
downey		No sir. We were gonna shave his head, sir.
kaffee		When all of a sudden...?
downey		We saw blood drippinq out of his mouth. Then we pulled the tape off, and there was blood all down his face, sir. That's when Corporal Dawson called the ambulance.
kaffee		 Did anyone see you call the ambulance?
dawson		No sir.
kaffee		Were you there when the ambulance got there?
dawson		Yes sir, that's when we were taken under arrest.
sam		 On the night of August 2nd, did you fire a shot across the fenceline into Cuba?
dawson		Yes sir.
sam		Why?
dawson		My mirror engaged, sir.
kaffee		 His mirror engaged?
sam		For each American sentry post there's a Cuban counterpart. They're called mirrors. The corporal's claiming that his mirror was about to fire at him.
kaffee		Santiago's letter to the NIS said you fired illegally. He's saying that the guy, the mirror, he never made a move.
kaffee		 Oh, Harold?
kaffee		 You see what I'm getting at? If Santiago didn't have anything on you, then why did you give him a Code Red?
dawson		Because he broke the chain of command, sir.
kaffee		He what?
dawson		He went outside his unit, sir. If he had a problem, he should've spoken to me, sir. Then his Sergeant, then Company Commander, then --
kaffee		Yeah, yeah, alright. Harold, did you assault Santiago with the intent of killing him?
dawson		No sir.
kaffee		What was your intent?
dawson		To train him, sir.
kaffee		Train him to do what?
dawson		Train him to think of his unit before himself. To respect the code.
sam		What's the code?
dawson		Unit Corps God Country.
sam		I beg your pardon?
dawson		Unit Corps God Country, sir.
kaffee		The Goverrment of the United States wants to charge you two with murder. You want me to go to the prosecutor with unit, corps, god, country?
dawson		That's our code, sir.
kaffee		We'll be back. You guys need anything? Books paper, cigarettes, a ham sandwich?
dawson		Sir. No thank you. Sir.
kaffee		Harold, I think there's a concept you better start warming up to.
dawson		Sir?
kaffee		I'm the only friend you've got.
ross		Dan Kaffee.
kaffee		Sailin' Jack Ross.
ross		Welcome to the big time.
kaffee		You think so?
ross		I hope for Dawson and Downey's sake you practice law better than you play softball.
kaffee		Unfortunately for Dawson and Downey, I don't do anything better than I play softball. What are we lookin' at?
ross		They plead guilty to manslaughter, I'll drop the conspiracy and the conduct unbecoming. 20 years, they'll be home in half that time.
kaffee		I want twelve.
ross		Can't do it.
kaffee		They called the ambulance, Jack.
ross		I don't care if they called the Avon Lady, they killed a marine.
kaffee		The rag was tested for poison.  The autopsy, lab report, even the initial E.R. and C.O.D. reports. They all say the same thing: Maybe, maybe not.
ross		The Chief of Internal Medicine at the Guantanamo Bay Naval hospital says he's sure.
kaffee		What do you know about Code Reds?
ross		Oh man.
ross		 Are we off the record?
kaffee		You tell me.
ross		 I'm gonna give you the twelve years, but before you go getting yourself into trouble tomorrow, you should know this: The platoon commander Lt. Jonathan Kendrick, had a meeting with the men. And he specifically told them not to touch Santiago.
kaffee		I'll talk to you when I get back.
ross		Hey, we got a little four-on-four going tomorrow night. When does your plane get in?
jo		Hi there.
kaffee		Any luck getting me replaced?
jo		Is there anyone in this command that you don't either drink or play softball with?
kaffee		Commander --
jo		Listen, I came to make peace. We started off on the wrong foot. What do you say? Friends?
kaffee		Look, I don't --
jo		By the way, I brought Downey some comic books he was asking for. The kid, Kaffee, I swear, he doesn't know where he is, he doesn't even know why he's been arrested.
kaffee		Commander --
jo		You can call me Joanne.
kaffee		Joanne --
jo		or Jo.
kaffee		Jo?
jo		Yes.
kaffee		Jo, if you ever speak to a client of mine again without my permission, I'll have you disbarred. Friends?
jo		I had authorization.
kaffee		From where?
jo		Downey's closest living relative, Ginny Miller, his aunt on his mother's side.
kaffee		You got authorization from Aunt Ginny?
jo		I gave her a call like you asked. Very nice woman, we talked for about an hour.
kaffee		You got authorization from Aunt Ginny.
jo		Perfectly within my province.
kaffee		Does Aunt Ginny have a barn? We can hold the trial there. I can sew the costumes, and maybe his Uncle Goober can be the judge.
jo		I'm going to Cuba with you tomorrow.
kaffee		And the hits just keep on comin'.
kaffee		How's it goin', Luther?
luther		Another day, another dollar, captain.
kaffee		You gotta play 'em as they lay, Luther.
luther		What comes around, goes around, you know what I'm sayin'.
kaffee		If you can't beat 'em, join 'em.
luther		Hey, if you've got your health, you got everything.
kaffee		Love makes the world go round. I'll see you tomorrow, Luther.
sam		When Nancy gets back, you're my witness. The baby spoke. My daughter said a word.
kaffee		Your daughter made a sound, Sam, I'm not sure it was a word.
sam		Oh come on, it was a word.
kaffee		Okay.
sam		You heard her. The girl sat here, pointed, and said "Pa". She did. She said "Pa".
kaffee		She was pointing at a doorknob.
sam		That's right. Pointing, as if to say, "Pa, look, a doorknob".
kaffee		Jack Ross came to see me today. He offered me twelve years.
sam		That's what you wanted.
kaffee		I know, and I'll... I guess, I mean --  I'll take it.
sam		So?
kaffee		It took albout 45 seconds. He barely put up a fight.
sam		 Danny, take the twelve years, it's a gift.
kaffee		You don't believe their story, do you? You think they ought to go to jail for the rest of their lives.
sam		I believe every word they said. And I think they ought to go to jail for the rest of their lives.
kaffee		I'll see you tomorrow.
sam		Remember to wear your whites, it's hot down there.
kaffee		I don't like the whites.
sam		Nobody likes the whites, but we're going to Cuba in August. You got Dramamine?
kaffee		Dramamine keeps you cool?
sam		Dramamine keeps you from throwing up, you get sick when you fly.
kaffee		I get sick when I fly because I'm afraid of crashing into a large mountain, I don't think Dramamine'll help.
sam		I've got some oregano, I hear that works pretty good.
kaffee		Yeah, right.
kaffee		 You know, Ross said the strangest thing to me right before I left. He said the platoon commander Lieutenant Jonathan Kendrick had a meeting with the men and specifically told them not to touch Santiago.
sam		So?
kaffee		I never mentioned Kendrick. I don't even know who he is.  I'll see you tomorrow.
howard		Lieutenants Kaffee and Weinberg?
kaffee		 Yeah.
jo		Commander Galloway.
howard		I'm Corporal Howard, ma'am, I'm to escort you to the Windward side of the base.
jo		Thank you.
howard		I've got some camouflage jackets in the back of the jeep, sirs, I'll have to ask you both to put them on.
kaffee		Camouflage jackets?
howard		Regulations, sir. We'll be riding pretty close to the fenceline. The Cubans see an officer wearing white, they think it's someone they might wanna take a shot at.
kaffee		Good call, Sam.
howard		 We'll just hop on the ferry and be over there in no time.
kaffee		 Whoa! Hold it! We gotta take a boat?!
howard		Yes sir, to get to the other side of the bay.
kaffee		Nobody said anything about a boat.
howard		 Is there a problem, sir?
kaffee		 No. No problem. I'm just not that crazy about boats, that's all.
jo		 Jesus Christ, Kaffee, you're in the Navy for cryin' out loud!
kaffee		 Nobody likes her very much.
howard		 Yes sir.
jessep		Nathan Jessep, come on in and siddown.
kaffee		Thank you. I'm Daniel Kaffee, I'm the attorney for Dawson and Downey. This is Joanne Galloway, she's observing and evaluating --
jo		 Colonel.
jessep		Pleased to meet you, Commander.
kaffee		Sam Weinberg. He has no responsibility here whatsoever.
jessep		I've asked Captain Markinson and Lt. Kendrick to join us.
markinson		Lt. Kaffee, I had the pleasure of seeing your father once. I was a teenager and he spoke at my high school.
jessep		Lionel Kaffee?
kaffee		Yes sir.
jessep		Well what do you know. Son, this man's dad once made a lot of enemies down in your neck of the woods. Jefferson vs. Madison County School District. The folks down there said a little black girl couldn't go to an all white school, Lionel Kaffee said we'll just see about that. How the hell is your dad?
kaffee		He passed away seven years ago, colonel.
jessep		 Well... don't I feel like the fuckin, asshole.
kaffee		Not at all, sir.
jessep		Well, what can we do for you, Danny.
kaffee		Not much at all, sir, I'm afraid. This is really a formality more than anything else. The JAG Corps insists that I interview all the relevant witnesses.
jo		The JAG Corps can be demanding that way.
jessep		Jonanthan'll take you out and show you what you wanna see, then we can all hook up for lunch, how does that sound?
kaffee		Fine, sir.
kaffee		I understand you had a meeting with your men that afternoon.
kendrick		Yes.
kaffee		What'd you guys talk about?
kendrick		I told the men that there was an informer among us. And that despite any desire they might have to seek retribution, Private Santiago was not to be harmed in any way.
kaffee		What time was that meeting?
kendrick		Sixteen-hundred.
sam		 Four o'clock.
kaffee		Sam, somebody should see about getting this stuff to his parents. We don't need it anymore.
kendrick		Actually, the uniforms belong to the marine corps.
kaffee		Lt. Kendrick -- can I call you Jon?
kendrick		No, you may not.
kaffee		 Have I done something to offend you?
kendrick		No, I like all you Navy boys. Every time we've gotta go someplace and fight, you fellas always give us a ride.
jo		Lt. Kendrick, do you think Santiago was murdered?
kendrick		Commander, I believe in God, and in his son Jesus Christ, and because I do, I can say this: Private Santiago is dead and that's a tragedy. But he's dead because he had no code. He's dead because he had no honor. And God was watching.
sam		How do you feel about that theory?
kaffee		 Sounds good. Let's move on.
jo		You planning on doing any investigating or are you just gonna take the guided tour?
kaffee		 I'm pacing myself.
jessep		...And they spent the next three hours running around, looking for Americans to surrender to.
jessep		 That was delicious, men, thank you.
steward		Our pleasure, sir.
kaffee		Colonel just need to ask you a couple of questions about August 6th.
jessep		Shoot.
kaffee		On the morning of the sixth, you were contacted by an NIS angent who said that Santiago had tipped him off to an illegal fenceline shooting.
jessep		Yes.
kaffee		Santiago was gonna reveal the person's name in exchange for a transfer. An I getting this right?
jessep		Yes.
kaffee		If you feel there are any details that I'm missing, you should free to speak up.
jessep		Thank you.
kaffee		Now it was at this point that you called Captain Markinson and Lt. Kendrick into your office?
jessep		Yes.
kaffee		And what happened then?
jessep		We agreed that for his own safety, Santiago should be transferred off the base.
kaffee		Santiago was set to be transferred?
jessep		On the first available flight to the states. Six the next morning. Three hours too late as it turned out.
kaffee		Yeah.
kaffee		 Alright, that's all I have. Thanks very much for your time.
kendrick		The corporal's got the jeep outside, he'll take you back to the airstrip.
kaffee		 Thank you.
jo		Wait a minute, I've got some questions.
kaffee		No you don't.
jo		Yes I do.
kaffee		No you don't.
jo		Colonel, on the morning that Santiago died, did you meet with Doctor Stone between three and five?
kaffee		Jo --
jessep		Of course I met with the doctor. One of my men was dead.
kaffee		 See? The man was dead. Let's go.
jo		 I was wondering if you've ever heard the term Code Red.
kaffee		Jo --
jessep		I've heard the term, yes.
jo		Colonel, this past February, you received a cautionary memo from the Naval Investigative Service, warning that the practice of enlisted men disciplining their own wasn't to be condoned by officers.
jessep		I submit to you that whoever wrote that memo has never served on the working end of a Soviet-made Cuban Ml-Al6 Assault Rifle. However, the directive having come from the NIS, I gave it its due attention. What's your point, Jo?
kaffee		She has no point. She often has no point. It's part of her charm. We're outta here. Thank you.
jo		My point is that I think code reds still go on down here. Do Code Reds still happen on this base, colonel?
kaffee		Jo, the colonel doesn't need to answer that.
jo		Yes he does.
kaffee		No, he really doesn't.
jo		Yeah, he really does. Colonel?
jessep		You know it just hit me. She outranks you, Danny.
kaffee		Yes sir.
jessep		I want to tell you something Danny and listen up 'cause I mean this: You're the luckiest man in the world. There is, believe me gentlemen, nothing sexier on earth than a woman you have to salute in the morning. Promote 'em all I say.
jo		Colonel, the practice of code Reds is still condoned by officers on this base, isn't it?
jessep		You see my problem is, of course, that I'm a Colonel. I'll just have to keep taking cold showers 'til they elect some gal President.
jo		I need an answer to my question, sir.
jessep		Take caution in your tone, Commander. I'm a fair guy, but this fuckin' heat's making me absolutely crazy. You want to know about code reds? On the record I tell you that I discourage the practice in accordance with the NIS directive. Off the record I tell you that it's an invaluable part of close infantry training, and if it happens to go on without my knowledge, so be it. I run my base how I run my base. You want to investigate me, roll the dice and take your chances. I eat breakfast 80 yards away from 4000 Cubans who are trained to kill me. So don't for one second think you're gonna come down here, flash a badge, and make me nervous.
kaffee		Let's go. Colonel, I'll just need a copy of Santiago's transfer order.
jessep		What's that?
kaffee		Santiago's transfer order. You guys have paper work on that kind of thing, I just need it for the file.
jessep		For the file.
kaffee		Yeah.
jessep		 Of course you can have a copy of the transfer order. For the file. I'm here to help anyway I can.
kaffee		Thank you.
jessep		You believe that, don't you? Danny? That I'm here to help anyway I can?
kaffee		Of course.
jessep		The corporal'll run you by Ordinance on your way out to the airstrip. You can have all the transfer orders you want.
kaffee		 Let's go.
jessep		But you have to ask me nicely.
kaffee		I beg your pardon?
jessep		You have to ask me nicely. You see, Danny, I can deal with the bullets and the bombs and the blood. I can deal with the heat and the stress and the fear. I don't want money and I don't want medals. What I want is for you to stand there in that faggoty white uniform, and with your Harvard mouth, extend me some fuckin' courtesy. You gotta ask me nicely.
kaffee		Colonel Jessep... if it's not too much trouble, I'd like a copy of the transfer order. Sir.
jessep		No problem.
jessep		 I hate casualties, Matthew. There are casualties even in victory. A marine smothers a grenade and saves his platoon, that marine's a hero. The foundation of the unit, the fabric of this base, the spirit of the Corps, they are things worth fighting for.
jessep		 Dawson and Downey, they don't know it, but they're smothering a grenade.
kaffee		Who is it?
kaffee		I've really missed you, Jo. I was just saying to myself, "It's been almost three hours since I last saw -- "
jo		Markinson resigned his commission.
kaffee		 When?
jo		This afternoon. Sometime after we left.
kaffee		I'll talk to him in the morning.
jo		I already tried, I can't find him.
kaffee		You tried? Joanne, you're coming dangerously close to the textbook definition of interfering with a government investigation.
jo		I'm Louden Downey's attorney.
jo		 Aunt Ginny. She said she feels like she's known me for years. I suggested that she might feel more comfortable if I were directly involved with the case. She had Louden sign the papers about an hour ago.
kaffee		I suppose it's way too much to hope that you're just making this up to bother me.
jo		Don't worry, I'm not gonna make a motion for separation, you're still lead counsel.
kaffee		Splendid.
jo		I think Kendrick ordered the Code Red.  So do you.
dawson		Officer on deck, ten hut.
kaffee		Did Kendrick order the code red?
dawson		Sir?
kaffee		Don't say sir like I just asked you if you cleaned the latrine. You heard what I said. Did Lt. Kendrick order you guys to give Santiago a code red?
dawson		Yes sir.
kaffee		 Did he?
downey		Yes sir.
kaffee		You mind telling me why the hell you never mentioned this before?
dawson		You didn't ask us, sir.
kaffee		Cutie-pie shit's not gonna win you a place in my heart, corporal, I get paid no matter how much time you spend in jail.
dawson		Yes sir. I know you do, sir.
kaffee		Fuck you, Harold.
jo		Alright. Let's sort this out. There was a platoon meeting on August 6th at four in the afternoon. And Lt. Kendrick, he gave strict instructions that nothing was to happen to Santiago. Now is that true? I want you to speak freely.
dawson		Ma'am, that's correct. But then he dismissed the platoon and we all went to our rooms.
jo		And what happened then?
dawson		Lt. Kendrick came to our room, ma'am.
kaffee		When?
dawson		About five minutes after the meeting
kaffee		 And what happened then?
dawson		Lt. Kendrick ordered us to give Santiago a Code Red.
kaffee		Jack!
kaffee		 Jack!!
ross		 Hang on...
kaffee		They were given an order.
jo		How long have you known about the order?
ross		I didn't --  Who is this?
kaffee		This is Jo Galloway she's Downey's lawyer. She's very pleased to meet you.
ross		What exactly are you accusing me of, commander?
jo		I'm accusing you of --
kaffee		Jack didn't know about the order. Because if he did and he hadn't told us, Jack knows he'd be violating about 14 articles of the code of ethics. As it is, he's got enough to worry about. God forbid our clients decide to plead not guilty and testify for the record that they were given an order.
ross		Kendrick specifically told the men not to touch Santiago.
kaffee		That's right. And then he went into Dawson and Downey's room and specifically told them to give him a code red.
ross		That's not what Kendrick said.
kaffee		Kendrick's lying.
ross		You have proof?
kaffee		I have the defendants.
ross		And I have 23 marines who aren't accused of murder and a lieutenant with four letters of commendation.
kaffee		Why did Markinson resign his commission?
ross		We'll never know.
kaffee		You don't think I can subpoena Markinson.
ross		You can try, but you won't find him. You know what Markinson did for the first 17 of his 21 years in the corps? Counter Intelligence. Markinson's gone. There is no Markinson.
ross		 Jessep's star is on the rise. Division'll give me a lot of room to spare Jessep and the corps any embarrassment.
kaffee		How much room?
ross		I'll knock it all down to assault. Two years. They're home in six months.
jo		No deal, we're going to a jury.
kaffee		Jo --
ross		No you're not.
jo		Why not?
ross		'Cause you'll lose, and Danny knows it. And he knows that if we go to court, I'll have to go all the way, they'll be charged with the whole truckload. Murder, Conspiracy, Conduct Unbecoming, and even though he's got me by the balls out here, Dan knows that in a courtroom, he loses this case. Danny's an awfully talented lawyer, and he's not about to send his clients go to jail for life when he knows they could be home in six months.
ross		 That's the end of this negotiation. From this moment, we're on the record. I'll see tomorrow morning at the arraignment.
kaffee		Here's the story: The Goverment's offering Assault and Conduct Unbecoming. Two years. You'll be home in six months.
kaffee		 "Wow, Kaffee, you're the greatest lawyer in the world. How can we ever thank you?" Fellas, you hear what I just said, you're going home in six months.
dawson		I'm afraid we can't do that, sir.
kaffee		Do what?
dawson		Make a deal, sir.
kaffee		What are you talking about?
dawson		We did nothing wrong, sir. We did our job. If that has consequences, then I accept them. But'I won't say I'm guilty, sir.
kaffee		Did you --  Did she put you up to this?
jo		No.
dawson		We have a code, sir.
kaffee		Well zippity-doo-dah. You and your code plead not guilty and you'll be in jail for the rest of your life. Do what I'm telling you and you'll be home in six months.
kaffee		 Do it, Harold. Six months. It's nothing. It's a hockey season.
dawson		Permission to --
kaffee		Speak!
dawson		What do we do then, sir?
kaffee		When?
dawson		After six months. We'd be dishonorably discharged, right sir?
kaffee		Yes.
dawson		What do we do then, sir? We joined the corps 'cause we wanted to live our lives by a certain code. And we found it in the corps. And now you're asking us to sign a piece of paper that says we have no honor. You're asking us to say we're not marines. If a judge and jury decide that what we did was wrong, I'll accept whatever punishment they give. But I believe I was riqht, sir. I believe I did my job. And I won't dishonor myself, my unit, or the Corps, so that I can qo home in six months.  Sir.
kaffee		Commander, I want to talk to corporal Dawson alone for a minute.
jo		 Let's go in another room. Louden, everything's gonna be alright.
jo		 We're gonna go into a holding room.
kaffee		You don't like me that much, do you?  Forget it, don't answer that, it doesn't matter.
kaffee		 You know, Downey worships you. He's gonna do whatever you do. Are you really gonna let this happen to him because of a code? Harold?
dawson		Do you think we were right?
kaffee		It doesn't matter what I --
dawson		Do you think we were right?
kaffee		 I think you'd lose.
dawson		 You're such a coward, I can't believe they let you wear a uniform.
kaffee		I'm not gonna feel responsible for this, Harold. I did everything I could. You're going to Levenworth for the better part of your life, and you know what? I don't give a shit.
kaffee		 M.P.!
kaffee		 What happened to saluting an officer when he leaves the room?
kaffee		Dawson's gonna go to jail just to spite me. Fine. If he wants to jump off a cliff, that's his business. I'm not gonna hold his hand on the way down.  I want to get him a new lawyer. How do I do it?
sam		You just make a motion tomorrow morning at the arraignment. The judge'll ask you if you want to enter a plea. You tell him you want new counsel assigned.
kaffee		 Then that's that.
jo		 Yeah. One thing, though. When you ask the judge for new counsel, Danny, be sure and ask nicely.
kaffee		What do you want from me?
jo		I want you to let 'em be judged! I want you to stand up and make an argument!
sam		An argument that didn't work for Calley at My Lai, an argument that didn't work for the Nazis at Nuremberg.
kaffee		For Christ sake, Sam, do you really think that's the same as two teenage marines executing a routine order that they never believed would result in harm? These guys aren't the Nazis.
jo		Don't look now, Danny, but you're making an argument.
kaffee		 Tomorrow morning I'll get them a new attorney.
jo		Why are you so afraid to be a lawyer? Were daddy's expectations really that high?
kaffee		Please, spare me the psycho-babble father bullshit. Dawson and Downey'll have their day in court, but they'll have it with another lawyer.
jo		Another lawyer won't be good enough. They need you. You know how to win.  You know they have a case. And you know how to win. You walk away from this now, and you have sealed their fate.
kaffee		Their fate was sealed the moment Santiago died.
jo		Do you believe they have a defense?
kaffee		You and Dawson both live in the same dreamland. It doesn't matter what I believe, it only matters what I can prove. So please don't tell me what I know and don't know. I know the law.
jo		You know nothing about the law. You're a used car salesman, Daniel. You're an ambulance chaser with a rank. You're nothing.  Live with that.
yuppie lawyer		...So I told duncan if we leverage the acquisition of Biotech, the interrogatories would be there on demand. All I have to do is not pick up the phone and it'll run Flaherty ten thousand a day in court costs.
randolph		Where are we?
randolph		Does defense wish to enter a plea?
kaffee		Yeah.  They're not guilty.
randolph		Enter a plea of not guilty for the defendants. We'll adjourn until ten- hundred, three weeks from today, at which time this Court will reconvene as a General Court-Martial.
kaffee		Why does a junior grade with six months experience and a track record for plea bargaining get assigned a murder case?  Would it be so that it never sees the inside of a courtroom?
kaffee		 We'll work out of my apartment. Every night, seven o'clock. Jo, before you come over tonight, pick up a carton of legal pads, a half-dozen boxes of red pens, a half-dozen boxes of black pens. Sam get a couple of desk lamps. I need you to start on a preliminary medical profile and Jo, we need all the fitness reports on Dawson, Downey and Santiago. The only thing I have to eat is Yoo-Hoo and SugarSnacks, so if you want anything else, bring it with you. Okay?
jo		Yeah.
kaffee		So this is what a courtroom looks like.
kaffee		Were you able to speak to your friend at NIS?
sam		She said if Markinson doesn't want to be found, we're not gonna find him. She said I could be Markinson and you wouldn't know it.
kaffee		Are you Markinson?
sam		No.
kaffee		Well, I'm not Markinson, that's two down.
kaffee		 What.
sam		 I was wondering, now that Joanne's working on this... I was wondering if you still need me.
kaffee		 They were following an order, Sam.
sam		An illegal order.
kaffee		You think Dawson and Downey know it was an illegal order?
sam		It doesn't matter if they know, any decent human being would've refused to --
kaffee		They're not permitted to question orders.
sam		Then what's the secret? What are the magic words? I give orders every day, and nobody follows them.
kaffee		We have softball games and marching bands. They work at a place where you have to wear camouflage or you might get shot.
kaffee		 I need you. You're better at research than I am and you know how to prepare a witness.
jo		I've got medical reports and Chinese food. I say we eat first.
sam		Did you get any dumplings?
kaffee		This is our defense. Intent: No one can prove there was poison on the raq. Code Red: They're common and accepted in Guantanamo Bay. The Order:  That's it.
sam		What about motive?
kaffee		We're a little weak on motive. They had one.
jo		Just because a person has a motive doesn't mean --
kaffee		Relax. We'll deal with the fenceline shooting when it comes up. For now we start here --  I don't know what made Santiago die, I don't want to know. I just want to be able to show it could've been something other than poison. Jo, talk to doctors. Find out everything there is to know about lactic acidosis. Let's start prepping for Stone.
jo		As long as we're on the subject of the doctor --
kaffee		Here we go.
jo		Listen to me, three o'clock he doesn't know what killed Santiago, then he meets with Jessep, and at five o'clock he says it was poison? The doctor's covering up the truth.
kaffee		Oh, that's a relief. I was afraid I wouldn't be able to use the "Liar, Liar, Pants on Fire" defense. We can't prove coercion!! Alright, fitness reports and biographical information.
kaffee		No Cliff-Notes on these things?
jo		 Captain Hill, this is Lt. Commander Galloway, I'm an internal affairs officer with the JAG Corps in Washington, D.C. I'm trying to track down a Captain Matthew Andrew Markinson, USMC...
kaffee		Doctor, other than the rope marks, was there any other sign of external damage?
sam		No.
kaffee		No scrapes?
sam		No.
kaffee		No cuts?
jo		 He resigned his commission a week ago Thursday.
kaffee		Bruises? Broken bones?
sam		No.
jo		 No, please don't put me on hold --
kaffee		Doctor, was there any sign of violence?
sam		 You mean other than the dead body?
kaffee		Fuck!! I walk into that every goddam time!
sam		Don't ask the last question.
kaffee		Lt. Kendrick, the type of disciplinary action, or "training'' as you say --
jo		Object.
kaffee		Please the Court, I maintain that nothing could be more relevant than what the defendants learned by the example of, among others, the witness.
jo		Nice.
jo		And what happened after Kendrick came into your room?
downey		 He ordered me and Corporal Dawson to give Willy a Code Red.
sam		 His answers still have to come faster, Jo. The Iowa farmboy thing'll play for a while, but in the end it looks like he's searching for the truth.
kaffee		 He's right, and from now on, "Willy" is Private Santiago. You start calling him Willy and all of a sudden he's a person who's got a mother who's gonna miss him.
kaffee		Poker faces. Don't flinch in front of the jury. Something doesn't go our way, don't hang your head, don't shift in your seat, don't scribble furiously. Whatever happens, you have to look like it's exactly what you knew was gonna happen. When you pass me documents --
kaffee		 And don't wear that perfume in Court, it wrecks my concentration.
jo		Really!
kaffee		I was talking to Sam.
sam		What time is it?
kaffee		Time to go home. Try to get some sleep tonight.
jo		 I'll give you a ride.
kaffee		 You're a good man, Charlie Brown.
sam		See you in court.
jo		Danny --
kaffee		I know what you're gonna say. You don't have to. We've had our differences. I've said some things I didn't mean, you've said some things you didn't means but you're happy that I stuck with the case. And if you've gained a certain respect for me over the last three weeks that you didn't have before, well, of course I'm happy about that, but we don't have to make a whole big deal out of it. You like me. I won't make you say it.
jo		I was just gonna tell you to wear matching socks tomorrow.
kaffee		 Okay. Good tip.
jo		We're ready.
kaffee		Bet your ass.
kaffee		 We're gonna get creamed.
man		You're gonna save our son, aren't you?
kaffee		 I'll do my best.
jo		Danny, I want you to meet Ginny Miller, Louden's aunt.
kaffee		You're Aunt Ginny?
ginny		Uh-huh.
kaffee		I'm sorry, I was expecting someone older.
ginny		So was I.
kaffee		Last chance. I'll flip you for it.
ross		Too late.
ross		No objection, your honor.
kaffee		No objection.
randolph		Is the Government prepared to make an opening statement?
ross		 Yes sir.
ross		 And they are undisputed.
randolph		Lt. Kaffee?
kaffee		There was no poison on the rag and there was no intent to kill and any attempt to prove otherwise is futile because it just ain't true.  Make no mistake about it, Harold Dawson and Louden Downey are sitting before you in judgement today because they did their job.
randolph		Is the Government ready to call its first witness?
ross		Please the Court, the Government calls Mr. R.C McGuire.
kaffee		How you doin'?
kaffee		 Good.
ross		Mr. McGuire, would you state your full name and occupation for the record, please?
mcguire		Robert C. McGuire, Special Agent, Naval Investigative Service.
ross		Mr. McGuire, did your office receive a letter from PFC William Santiago on 3 August of this year?
mcguire		We did.
ross		What did the letter say?
mcguire		That a member of Private Santiago's unit had illegally fired his weapon over the fenceline.
ross		Was that marine identified in the letter?
mcguire		No sir. I notified the barracks C.O., Colonel Jessep, that I would be coming down to investigate.
ross		And what did you find?
mcguire		For the shift reported, only one sentry returned his weapon to the switch with a round of ammunition missing.
ross		And who was that?
mcguire		Lance Corporal Harold Dawson.
ross		 Your witness.
kaffee		Mr. McGuire, have you questioned Corporal Dawson about the fenceline shooting?
mcguire		Yes. He claims to have been engaged in some manner by the enemy.
kaffee		But you don't believe him.
mcguire		It's not my place --
kaffee		Corporal Dawson's been charged with a number of crimes, why wasn't he charged with firing at the enemy without cause?
mcguire		There wasn't enough evidence to support such a charge.
kaffee		Thank you.
ross		Mr. McGuire, I don't understand what you mean when you say there wasn't enough evidence to support such a charge. You had Willy Santiago's letter.
mcguire		Santiago was the only witness, but I never had a chance to interview him. So I don't know what he saw.
ross		And now we won't ever know, will we, Mr. McGuire?
mcguire		No.
ross		No more questions.
hammaker		Corporal Carl Edward Hammaker, Marine Barracks, Rifle Security Company Windward, Second Platoon Charlie.
ross		Corporal, were you present at a meeting that Lt. Kendrick held on the afternoon of August 6th with the members of second platoon.
hammaker		Yes sir.
ross		Would you tell the Court the substance of that meeting?
hammaker		Lt. Kendrick told us that we had an informer in our group.  That Private Santiago had gone outside the chain of command and reported to the NIS on a member of our platoon.
ross		Did that make you mad?  You can tell the truth, corporal, it's alright. Did it make you mad?
hammaker		Yes sir.
ross		How mad?
hammaker		Private Santiago betrayed a code that we believe in very deeply, sir.
ross		Were the other members of the squad angry?
kaffee		Object --
ross		Were Dawson and Downey?
kaffee		Please the Court, is the judge advocate honestly asking this witness to testify as to how the defendant felt on August 6th?
randolph		Sustained.
ross		Corporal, did Lt. Kendrick leave a standing order at that meeting?
randolph		Yes sir.
ross		What was it?
hammaker		Well it was clear that he didn't want us to take matters into our own hands, sir.
ross		What was the order?
hammaker		Sir, he said that Santiago wasn't to be touched.
ross		 Your witness.
kaffee		Corporal Hammaker, were you in Dawson and Downey's barracks room ten minutes after this meeting?
hammaker		No sir.
kaffee		Thanks, I have no more questions.
ross		The Government calls Corporal Raymond Thomas --
kaffee		Please the Court, I understand Lt. Ross is planning on calling all the other members of Rifle Security Company Windward to testify.
ross		In light of the defense that Lt. Kaffee is planning to mount, the explicit instructions of the platoon leader seems particularly relevant testimony.
kaffee		The defense is willing to concede that all 23 witnesses will testify substantially as Corporal Hammaker did, if the Government is willing to concede that none of them were in Dawson and Downey's room at 16:20 on August 6th.
randolph		 Lieutenant?
ross		The Government'll agree to the stipulation, sir.
randolph		Then we'll adjourn for the day. You can call your next witness in the morning.
stone		...And he was pronounced dead at zero-zero-thirty-seven.
ross		Dr. Stone, what's lactic acidosis?
stone		If the muscles and other cells of the body burn sugar instead of oxygen, lactic acid is produced. That lactic acid is what caused Santiago's lungs to bleed.
ross		How long does it take for the muscles and other cells to begin burning oxygen instead of sugar?
stone		Twenty to thirty minutes.
ross		And what caused Santiago's muscles and other cells to start burning sugar?
stone		An ingested poison of some kind.
kaffee		Your Honor, we object at this point. The witness is speculating.
ross		Commander Stone is an expert medical witness, in this courtroom his opinion isn't considered speculation.
kaffee		Commander Stone is an internist, not a criminologist, and the medical facts here are ultimately inconclusive.
randolph		A point which I'm confident you'll illustrate to the jury under cross- examination, so I'm sure you won't mind if his opinion is admitted now.
kaffee		Not at all, sir. Objection withdrawn.
ross		Doctor Stone, did Willy Santiago die of poisoning?
stone		Absolutely.
ross		Are you aware that the lab report and the coroners report showed no traces of poison?
stone		Yes I am.
ross		Then how do you justify --
stone		There are literally dozens of toxins which are virtually undetectable, both in the human body and on a fabric. The nature of the acidosis is the compelling factor in this issue.
ross		Thank you, sir.
kaffee		Commander, you testified that it takes lactic acidosis 20 to 30 minutes before it becomes lethal.
stone		Yes.
kaffee		Let me ask you, is it possible for a person to have an affliction, some sort of condition, which might, in the case of this person, actually speed up the process of acidosis dramatically?
kaffee		 Commander, is it possible?
stone		Certainly.
kaffee		What might some of those conditions be?
stone		 If a person had a coronary disorder... or a cerebral disorder, the process would be more rapid.
kaffee		Commander, if I had a coronary condition, and a perfectly clean rag was placed in my mouth, and the rag was accidentally pushed too far down, is it possible that my cells would continue burning sugar after the rag was taken out?
stone		It would have to be a very serious condition.
kaffee		Is it possible to have a serious coronary condition, where the initial warning signals were so mild as to escape a physician during a routine medical exam?
stone		Possibly. There would still be symptoms though.
kaffee		What kind of symptoms?
stone		There are hundreds of symptoms of a --
kaffee		Chest pains?
stone		 Yes.
kaffee		Shortness of breath?
stone		Yes.
kaffee		Fatigue?
stone		Of course.
kaffee		Doctor, is this your signature?
stone		Yes it is.
kaffee		This in an order for Private Santiago to be put on restricted duty. Would you read your hand written remarks at the bottom of the page, please, sir.
stone		 "Initial testing negative. Patient complains of chest pains, shortness of breath, and fatigue. Restricted from running distances over five miles for one week."
kaffee		Commander, isn't it possible that Santiago had a serious coronary condition, and it was that condition, and not some mysterious poison, that caused the accelerated chemical reaction?
stone		No. I personally give the men a physical examination every three months. And every three months Private Santiago got a clean bill of health.
kaffee		And that's why it had to be, poison, right, Commander? 'Cause Lord knows, if you put a man with a serious coronary condition back on duty with a clean bill of health, and that man died from a heart related incident, you'd have a lot to answer for, wouldn't you, doctor?
ross		Object. Move to strike.
randolph		Sustained. Strike it.
kaffee		No more questions, judge.
ross		Dr. Stone, you've held a license to practice medicine for 21 years, you are Board Certified in Internal Medicine, you are the Chief of Internal Medicine at a hospital which serves over 8000 men. In your professional opinion, was Willy Santiago poisoned?
jo		Your Honor, we re-new our objection to Commander Stone's testimony, and ask that it be stricken from the record. And we further ask that the Court instruct the jury to lend no weight to this witness's testimony.
randolph		The objection's overruled, counsel.
jo		Sir, the defense strenuously objects and requests a meeting in chambers so that his honor might have an opportunity to hear discussion before ruling on the objection.
randolph		The objection of the defense has been heard and overruled.
jo		Exception.
randolph		Noted. The witness is an expert and the court will hear his opinion.
ross		Doctor, in your expert, professional opinion, was Willy Santiago poisoned?
stone		Yes.
ross		Thank you, sir, I have no more questions.
randolph		Commander, you may step down.
ross		Please the Court, while we reserve the right to call rebuttal witnesses if the need arises, the Government rests.
randolph		We'll stand in recess until ten- hundred hours this Monday, the l9th at which time the defense will call it's first witness.
sam		I strenuously object? Is that how it works? Objection. Overruled. No, no, no, no, I strenuously object. Oh, well if you strenuously object, let me take a moment to reconsider.
jo		I got it on the record.
sam		You also got it in the jury's head that we're afraid of the doctor. You object once so they can hear you say he's not a criminologist. You keep after it and it looks like this great cross we did was just a bunch of fancy lawyer tricks. It's the difference between paper law and trial --
kaffee		Sam --
sam		Christ, you even had the Judge saying Stone was an expert!
kaffee		Sam, she made a mistake. Let's not relive it.
sam		I'm gonna go call my wife. I'll meet you tonight.
jo		Why do you hate them so much?
sam		They beat up on a weakling, and that's all they did. The rest is just smokefilled coffee-house crap. They tortured and tormented a weaker kid. They didn't like him. And they killed him. And why? Because he couldn't run very fast.
kaffee		Alright. Everybody take the night off.
sam		 I apologize, I, --
kaffee		It's alright. We've been working 20 hour days for three and a half weeks straight. Take the night off. Go see your wife, see your daughter. Jo, do whatever it is you do when you're not here. What day is tomorrow?
sam		Saturday.
kaffee		We'll start at ten.
sam		Why do you like them so much?
jo		 And they say "Nothing's gonna hurt you tonight. Not on my watch."
sam		Don't worry about the doctor. This trial starts Monday.
jo		I'm sorry to bother you, I should've called first.
kaffee		No, I was just watching a baseball game.
jo		I was wondering if -- how you'd feel about my taking you to dinner tonight.
kaffee		Jo, are you asking me out on a date?
jo		No.
kaffee		It sounded like you were asking me out on a date.
jo		I wasn't.
kaffee		I've been asked out on dates before, and that's what it sounded like.
jo		Do you like seafood? I know a good seafood place.
jo		My third case was a Drunk and Disorderly. The trial lasted nine weeks. I rounded up 31 people who were in the bar that night.
kaffee		Nine weeks on a D and D? What was the prosecutor offering?
jo		15 days.
kaffee		 Well, you sure hustled the shit outta him.
jo		After that, they moved me to internal affairs.
kaffee		Tough to blame them.
jo		Where I've earned two distinguished service medals and two letters of commendation.
kaffee		Why are you always giving me your resume?
jo		Because I want you to think I'm good lawyer.
kaffee		I do.
jo		No you don't.  I think you're an exceptional lawyer. I watch the jurors, they respond to you, they like you. I see you convincing them. I think Dawson and Downey are gonna end up owing their lives to you.
kaffee		 We'll keep doing what we're doing, and we'll put on a show, but at the end of the day, all we have is the testimony of two people accused of murder.
jo		We'll find Markinson.
kaffee		Jo, we're gonna lose. And we're gonna lose huge.
kaffee		Corporal Howard, name some reasons why a marine would get a code red?
howard		Being late for platoon or company meetings, keeping his barracks in disorder, falling back on a run...
kaffee		Have you ever received a code red?
howard		Yes sir. We were doing seven man assault drills, and my weapon slipped. It's just cause it was over a hundred degrees and my palms were sweaty and I'd forgot to use the resin like we were taught.
kaffee		And what happened?
howard		That night the guys in my squad threw a blanket over me and took turns punching me in the arm for five minutes. Then they poured glue on my hands. And it worked, too, 'cause I ain't never dropped my weapon since.
kaffee		Was Private Santiago ever late for platoon meetings?
howard		Yes sir.
kaffee		Was his barracks ever in disorder?
howard		Yes sir.
kaffee		Did he ever fall back on a run?
howard		All the time, sir.
kaffee		Did he ever, prior to the night of August 6th, receive a code red?
howard		No sir.
kaffee		 Never?
howard		No, sir.
kaffee		You got a code red 'cause your palms were sweaty. Why didn't Santiago, this burden to his unit, ever get one?
howard		Dawson wouldn't allow it, sir.
kaffee		Dawson wouldn't allow it.
howard		The guys talked tough about Santiago, but they wouldn't go near him. They were too afraid of Dawson, sir.
ross		Object. The witness is characterizing.
kaffee		I'll rephrase. Jeffrey, did you ever want to give Santiago a code red?
howard		Yes sir.
kaffee		Why didn't you?
howard		'Cause Dawson'd kick my butt, sir.
kaffee		Good enough. Lt. Ross is gonna ask you some questions now.
ross		Corporal Howard, I hold here The Marine Guide and General Information Handbook for New Recruits. Are you familiar with this book?
howard		Yes sir.
ross		Have you read it?
howard		Yes sir.
ross		Good.  Would you turn to the chapter that deals with code reds, please.
howard		Sir?
ross		Just flip to the page in that book that discusses code reds.
howard		Sir, you see, Code Red is a term we use -- it's just used down at GITMO, sir. I don't know if it actually --
ross		We're in luck, then. The Marine Corps Guide for Sentry Duty, NAVY BASE Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. I assume we'll find the term code red and its definition in this book, am I correct?
howard		No sir.
ross		No? Corporal Howard, I'm a marine. Is their no book, no manual or pamphlet, no set of orders or regulations that let me know that, as a marine, one of my duties is to perform code reds?
howard		 No sir. No books, sir.
ross		No further questions.
kaffee		Corporal, would you turn to the page in this book that says where the enlisted men's mess hall is?
howard		Lt. Kaffee, that's not in the book, sir.
kaffee		I don't understand, how did you know where the enlisted men's mess hall was if it's not in this book?
howard		I guess I just followed the crowd at chow time, sir.
kaffee		No more questions.
randolph		Corporal Howard, you can step down.
howard		 Thank you, sir.
kaffee		Seven tonight, we'll do a final Kendrick review. I want to slam- dunk this guy.
kaffee		Hey, Luther.
luther		Admiral, how's the big case goin'?
kaffee		Nose to the grindstone.
luther		No flies on you.
kaffee		A rolling stone gathers no moss.
luther		Yeah, well it ain't over til the fat lady sings.
kaffee		Ain't that the truth. Catch you tomorrow.
kaffee		Jesus fucking Christ!!--
markinson		You left the door unlocked.
kaffee		Scared the shit outta me.
markinson		Drive.
kaffee		Are you aware you're under subpoena?
markinson		Yes. I'm also aware that the lives of two marines are in your hands. If there was something I could do about that, I would, but since I can't, all I can do is help you. Why don't you drive, Lieutenant.
kaffee		What do you know?
markinson		I know everything.
kaffee		Was it a code red?
markinson		Yes.
kaffee		Did Kendrick give the order?
markinson		Yes.
kaffee		Did you witness it?
markinson		I didn't need to --
kaffee		Did you witness it?!
markinson		No.
kaffee		Then how do you know?
markinson		I know.
kaffee		You know shit.
markinson		He was never gonna be transferred off the base.
markinson		 Jessep was going to keep him on the base. He said he wanted him trained.
kaffee		We've got the transfer order. It's got your signature.
markinson		I know. I signed it the morning you arrived in Cuba. Six days after Santiago died.
kaffee		I'm gonna get you a deal. Some kind of immunity with the prosecutor. In about four days, you're gonna appear as a witness for the defense, and you're gonna tell the court exactly what you told me. Right now I'm gonna check you into a motel, and we're gonna start from the beginning.
markinson		I don't want a deal. And I don't want immunity.
markinson		 I want you to know, I'm proud neither of what I've done nor what I'm doing.
jo		Where is he?
kaffee		The Route 23 Best Western.
jo		I want him guarded.
kaffee		That's probably a good idea.
jo		 This is Lt. Commander Joanne Galloway.
kaffee		Clearance code?
jo		Thank you.
kaffee		 I don't have a clearance code. Do you have a --
jo		 It's Jo Galloway. I need to secure a witness.
kaffee		He also said that Jessep's lying about the transportation off the base. Jessep said six the next morning was the first flight Santiago could've left on, Markinson says there was a plane that left seven hours earlier.
jo		Damn.
kaffee		That was impressive. Did you hear what I just said about the flight?
jo		Yes.
kaffee		Sam, when a plane takes off from a base, there's gotta be some kind of record kept, right?
sam		We need the Tower Chief's Log for GITMO.
kaffee		 Get it.
jo		We're gonna win.
kaffee		Jo, don't get crazy about this. We don't know who Markinson is. We don't know what the log book's gonna say. You just concentrate on Downey. I'm gonna talk to Ross and tell him where we are.
jo		 "Kaffee's got his case now, Kaffee's got his case now."
kaffee		You are like seven of the strangest women I have ever met.
ross		That was nice work today. The redirect on Howard.
kaffee		I have Markinson.
ross		Where is he?
kaffee		A motel room in Arlington with 14 Federal Marshals outside his door. Take a sip of your drink.
ross		Damn.
kaffee		The transfer order that Parkinson signed is phoney. And Jessep's statement that the six a.m. flight was the first available is a lie, we're checking the tower chief's log. But in the meantime I'm gonna put the Apostle Jon Kendrick on the stand and see if we can't have a little fun.
ross		I have an obligation to tell you that if you accuse Kendrick or Jessep of any crime without proper evidence, you'll be subject to Court-Martial for professional misconduct. And that's something that'll be stapled to every job application you ever fill out. Markinson's not gonna hold up, he's a crazy man. I'm not saying this to intimidate you. I'm being your lawyer.
kaffee		Thanks, Jack. And I wanna tell you that I think the whole fuckin' bunch of you are certifiably insane. And this code of honor of yours makes me wanna beat the shit outta something.
ross		Don't you dare lump me in with Jessep and Markinson and Kendrick because we wear the same uniform. I'm your friend, Danny, and I'm telling you, I don't think your clients belong in jail. But I don't get to make that decision. I represent the Government of the United States. Without passion or prejudice. And my client has a case.  I want you to acknowledge that the judge advocate has made you aware of the possible consequences involved in accusing a marine officer of a felony without proper evidence.
kaffee		I've been so advised.
ross		You got bullied into that courtroom, Danny. By everyone. By Dawson, by Galloway, shit, I practically dared you. Not for a second have you believed you could win. You got bullied into that room by the memory of a dead lawyer.
kaffee		 You're a lousy softball player, Jack.
ross		Your boys are going down. I can't stop it anymore.
kaffee		Batter up, J.J.
kaffee		Lt. Kendrick, in your opinion, was Private Santiago a good marine?
kendrick		I'd say he was about average.
kaffee		Lieutenant, you signed three fitness reports on Santiago. On all three reports you indicated a rating of Below Average.
kendrick		Yes. Private Santiago was Below Average I didn't see the need in trampling on a man's grave.
kaffee		We appreciate that, but you're under oath now, and I think unpleasant as it may be, we'd all just as soon hear the truth.
kendrick		I'm aware of my oath.
kaffee		Lieutenant, these are the last three fitness reports you signed for Lance Corporal Dawson and PFC Downey. Downey received three straight marks of Exceptional. Dawson received two marks of Exceptional, but on this most recent report, dated June 9th of this year, he received a rating of Below Average. It's this last report that I'd like to discuss for a moment.
kendrick		That's fine.
kaffee		Lance Corporal Dawson's ranking after Infantry Training School was perfect. Records indicate that over half that class has since been promoted to full corporal, while Dawson has remained a lance corporal. Was Dawson's promotion held up because of this last fitness report.
kendrick		I'm sure it was.
kaffee		Do you recall why Dawson was given such a poor grade on this report?
kendrick		I'm sure I don't. I have many men in my charge, Lieutenant, I write many fitness reports.
kaffee		Do you recall an incident involving a PFC Curtis Barnes who'd been found stealing liquor from the Officer's Club?
kendrick		Yes.
kaffee		Did you report private Barnes to the proper authorities?
kendrick		I have two books at my bedside, Lieutenant, the Marine Code of Conduct and the King James Bible. The only proper authorities I'm aware of are my Commanding Officer, Colonel Nathan R. Jessep and the Lord our God.
kaffee		Lt. Kendrick, at your request, I can have the record reflect your lack of acknowledgment of this court as a proper authority.
ross		Objection. Argumentative.
randolph		Sustained.  Watch yourself, counselor.
kaffee		Did you report Private Barnes to your superiors?
kendrick		I remember thinking very highly of Private Barnes, and not wanting to see his record tarnished by a formal charge.
kaffee		You preferred it to be handled within the unit.
kendrick		I most certainly did.
kaffee		Lieutenant, do you know what a Code Red is?
kendrick		Yes I do.
kaffee		Have you ever ordered a code red?
kendrick		No, I have not.
kaffee		Lieutenant, did you order Dawson and two other men to make sure that Private Barnes receive no food or drink except water for a period of seven days?
kendrick		That's a distortion of the truth. Private Barnes was placed on barracks restriction. He was given water and vitamin supplements, and I assure you that at no time was his health in danger.
kaffee		I'm sure it was lovely for Private Barnes, but you did order the barracks restriction, didn't you? And you did order the denial of food.
kendrick		Yes.
kaffee		Wouldn't this form of discipline be considered a code red?
kendrick		 Not necessarily.
kaffee		If I called the other 8000 men at Guantanamo Bay to testify, would they consider it a Code Red?
ross		Please the court, the witness can't possibly testify as to what 8000 other men would say. We object to this entire line of questioning as argumentative and irrelevant badgering of the witness.
randolph		The Government's objection is sustained, Lt. Kaffee, and I would remind you that you're now questioning marine officer with an impeccable service record.
ross		Thank you judge.
kaffee		Lieutenant, was Dawson given a rating of Below Average on this last fitness report because you learned held been sneaking food to Private Barnes?  Lieutenant?
kendrick		Corporal Dawson was found to be Below Average because he committed a crime.
kaffee		What crime did he commit?  Dawson brought a hungry guy some food. What crime did he commit?
kendrick		He disobeyed an order.
kaffee		And because he did, because he exercised his own set of values, because he made a decision about the welfare of a marine that was in conflict with an order of yours, he was punished, is that right?
kendrick		Corporal Dawson disobeyed an order.
kaffee		Yeah, but it wasn't a order, was it? After all, it's peacetime. He wasn't being asked to secure a hill... or advance on a beachhead. I mean, surely a marine of Dawson's intelligence can be trusted to determine on his own, which are the really important orders, and which orders might, say, be morally questionable. 
kendrick		No, he can not.
kaffee		A lesson he learned after the Curtis Barnes incident, am I right?
kendrick		I would think so.
kaffee		You know so, don't you, Lieutenant.
ross		Object!
randolph		Sustained.
kaffee		Lieutenant Kendrick, one final question: if you ordered Dawson to give Santiago a code red...
ross		-- please the court --
kendrick		I told those men not to touch Santiago.
kaffee		-- is it reasonable to think that he would've disobeyed you again?
ross		Lieutenant, don't answer that.
kaffee		You don't have to, I'm through.
ross		Lieutenant Kendrick, did you order Corporal Dawson and Private Downey to give Willy Santiaga code red?
ross		 Lt. Kendrick, did you --
kendrick		No I did not.
ross		Thank you.
kaffee		What's the word?
sam		This is the tower chief's log for that night. Jessep was telling the truth. The six a.m. flight was the first plane out.
kaffee		Let me see that.
kaffee		There was no flight out at eleven o'clock. What the fuck are you trying to pull?
markinson		The first flight stateside left Guantanamo Bay at eleven and arrived at Andrews Airforce Base, Maryland, at a few minutes past two.
kaffee		Then why the hell isn't it listed in the Tower Chief's log?!
markinson		Why the hell did you think it would be?!!
kaffee		What are you telling me?  He fixed the log book?
kaffee		 Well, maybe he can make it so a plane didn't take off, but I can sure as hall prove that one landed. I'll get the log book from Andrews.
kaffee		 He made an entire flight disappear?
markinson		Nathan Jessep is about to be named Director of Operations for the National Security Council. You don't get to that position without knowing how to side-step a few land mines.  And putting me on the stand isn't gonna make him step on one.
kaffee		You're taking the stand. Thursday.
kaffee		There's gotta be someone who can testify to the flight. A ground crew member. Someone.
sam		Do you have any idea how many planes take off and land every day? A kid from the ground crew isn't gonna remember a flight that landed four weeks ago.
kaffee		Forget the flight. We'll put Markinson on the stand and we'll deal with Jessep's refusal to transfer Santiago and he'll testify to the forged transfer order. That'll be enough. That and Downey's testimony really oughta be enough.
jo		Private Downey, why did you go into Santiago's room on the night of the 6th?
downey		To give Private Santiago a Code Red, ma'am.
jo		And why did you give him a Code Red?
downey		I was ordered to give him a Code Red by the Executive officer for Rifle Security Company Windward, Lieutenent Jonathan James Kendrick.
jo		You're gonna do fine.
downey		You think they'll let us go back to our platoon soon, ma'am?
jo		 Absolutely.
jo		You remember the order of the questions?
kaffee		Yes.
jo		Are you sure?
kaffee		Yes.
jo		And you'll use small words?
kaffee		Yes.
jo		He gets rattled when he doesn't understand something.
kaffee		Jo --
jo		I'm just saying go slow.
kaffee		I'm gonna go slow.
jo		Okay.
kaffee		Alright.
jo		And get him off as fast as you can.
kaffee		Joanne!
jo		What?
kaffee		He's gonna be fine.
kaffee		Private, I want you to tell us one last time: Why did you go into Private Santiago's room on the night of August 6th?
downey		A code red was ordered by my platoon commander, Lt. Jonathan James Kendrick.
kaffee		Thank you.  Your witness.
ross		Private, for the week of 2 August, the switch log has you down at Post 39, is that correct?
downey		I'm sure it is, sir, they keep that log pretty good.
ross		How far is it from Post 39 to the Windward barracks?
downey		It's a ways, sir, it's a hike.
ross		About how far by jeep?
downey		About ten, fifteen minutes, sir.
ross		Have you ever had to walk it?
downey		Yes sir. That day, sir. Friday. The Pick-up Private -- sir, that's what we call the fella who drops us at our posts and picks us up... also, 'cause he can get girls in New York City -- the Pick-up Private got a flat...
downey		 ...Right at 39. He pulled up and blam! ...A blowout-with no spare. The two of us had to double-time it back to the barracks.
ross		And if it's ten or fifteen minutes by jeep, I'm guessing it must be a good hour by foot, am I right?
downey		Pick-up and me did it in 45 flat, sir.
ross		Not bad. Now you say your assault on Private Santiago was the result of an order that Lt. Kendrick gave in
downey		Yes sir.
ross		But you just said that you didn't make it back to Windward Barracks
downey		Sir?
ross		If you didn't make it back to your barracks until 16:45, then how could you be in your room at 16:20?
downey		 You see sir, there was a flat tire.
ross		Private, did you ever actually hear Lt. Kendrick order a Code Red?
downey		 No, sir.
jo		Please the court, I'd like to request a recess in order to confer with my client.
ross		Why did you go into Santiago's room?
jo		The witness has rights.
ross		The witness has been read his rights, commander.
downey		 Hal?
randolph		The question will be repeated.
ross		Why did you go into Santiago's room?
jo		Your honor --
downey		Hal?
ross		Did Corporal Dawson tell you to do it?
ross		 He did, didn't he? Dawson told you to give Santiago a code red.
downey		Hal?
ross		Don't look at him.
downey		Hal?
dawson		Private. Answer the Lieutenant's question.
downey		Yes, Lieutenant. I was given an order by my squad leader, Lance Corporal Harold W. Dawson of the U.S. Marine Corps. And I followed it.
jo		Where do you think he is?
jo		 As far as Downey was concerned, it was an order from Kendrick. It didn't matter that he didn't hear it first hand. He doesn't distinguish between the two.
jo		 Danny. I'm sorry.
kaffee		Don't worry about it.
jo		Sam and I were just talking about how all we really have to do is call some witnesses who'll talk about implied orders... or maybe we put Downey back on the stand before we get to Dawson.
kaffee		Maybe if we work at it we can get Dawson charged with the Kennedy assassination.
jo		Are you drunk?
kaffee		 Pretty much. Yeah.
jo		 I'll make a pot of coffee. We have a long night's work ahead.
kaffee		She's gonna make coffee. That's nice.  That was an important piece of information, don't you think?
jo		 Danny, it was just a setback. I'm sorry. But we'll fix it and then move on to Markinson.
kaffee		Markinson's dead.
kaffee		 It's not like he hanged himself by his shoelaces or slashed his wrists with a concealed butter knife. This guy got, into full dress uniform, stood in the middle of that room, drew a nickle plated pistol from his holster, and fired a bullet into his mouth.
kaffee		 Anyway, since we seem to be out of witnesses, I thought I'd drink a little.
jo		I still think we can win.
kaffee		Then maybe you should drink a little.
jo		Look, we'll go to Randolph in the morning and make a motion for a continuance. 24 hours.
kaffee		 Why would we want to do that?
jo		To subpoena Colonel Jessep.
kaffee		What?
jo		Listen for a second --
kaffee		No.
jo		Just hear me out --
kaffee		No. I won't listen to you and I won't hear you out. Your passion is comforting, Jo. It's also useless. Private Downey needed a trial lawyer today.
jo		 You chicken-shit. You're gonna use what happened today as an excuse to give up.
kaffee		It's over!
jo		Why did you ask Jessep for the transfer order?
kaffee		What are you --
jo		In Cuba. Why did you ask Jessep for the transfer order?
kaffee		What does it matter --
jo		Why?!
kaffee		I wanted the damn transfer order!
jo		Bullshit! You could've gotten it by picking up the phone and calling any one of a dozen departments at the Pentagon. You didn't want the transfer order. You wanted to see Jessep's reaction when you asked for the transfer order. You had an instinct. And it was confirmed by Markinson. Now damnit, let's put Jessep on the stand and end this thing!
kaffee		What possible good could come from putting Jessep on the stand?
jo		He told Kendrick to order the Code Red.
kaffee		He did?! Why didn't you say so!? That's qreat! And of course you have proof of that.
jo		I --
kaffee		Ah, I keep forgetting: You were sick the day they taught law at law school.
jo		You put him on the stand and you get it from him!
kaffee		Yes. No problem. We get it from him.  Colonel, isn't it true that you ordered the Code Red on Santiago?
sam		Look, we're all a little --
kaffee		I'm sorry, your time's run out. What do we have for the losers, Judge? Well, for our defendants it's a lifetime at exotic Fort Levenworth. And for defense counsel Kaffee? That's right -- it's -- a court -- martial. Yes, Johnny, after falsely accusing a marine officer of conspiracy, Lt. Kaffee will have a long and prosperous career teaching typewriter maintenance at the Rocco Columbo School for Women. Thank you for playing "Should We or Should-We-Not Follow the Advice of the Galacticly Stupid".
jo		I'm sorry I lost you your set of steak knives.
kaffee		Stop cleaning up.
kaffee		 Sam. Stop cleaning up.
kaffee		 You want a drink?
sam		Yeah.
kaffee		Is your father proud of you?
sam		Don't do this to yourself.
kaffee		I'll bet he is. I'll bet he bores the shit outta the neighbors and the relatives. "Sam, made Law Review. He's got a big case he's making -- He's arguing making an argument."  I think he would've liked that... an awful lot.
sam		Did I ever tell you that I wrote a paper on your father in college?
kaffee		Yeah?
sam		He was one of the best trial lawyers ever.
kaffee		Yes he was.
sam		And if I were Dawson and Downey and I had a choice between you or your father to represent me in this case, I'd take you any day of the week and twice on Sunday. You should have seen yourself thunder away at Kendrick.
kaffee		Would you put Jessep on the stand?
sam		No.
kaffee		You think my father would've?
sam		With the evidence we've got? Not in a million years. But here's the thing -- and there's really no way of getting around this -- neither Lionel Kaffee nor Sam Weinberg are lead counsel for the defense in the matter of U.S. versus Dawson and Downey. So there's only one question. What would you do?
kaffee		Joanne.
kaffee		 Stop the car.
kaffee		 Joanne.
kaffee		 I apologize. I was angry and... I'm sorry about what I said.
kaffee		 I'm gonna put Jessep on the stand.
jo		I say we hit him with the phoney transfer order.
sam		What's the transfer order without a witness?
kaffee		We have a witness.
sam		A dead witness.
kaffee		And in the hands of a lesser attorney, that'd be a problem.
sam		Look at this. Last night he was swimming in his Jack Daniels, now he can leap tall buildings in a single bound.
kaffee		I'm getting my second wind. Siddown. Both of you.
kaffee		 Jessep told Kendrick to order a code red. Kendrick did, and our clients followed the order. The cover-up isn't our case. To win, Jessep has to tell the jury that he ordered the code red.
sam		And you think you can got him to just say it?
kaffee		I think he wants to say it. I think he's pissed off that he's gotta hide from us. I think he wants to say that he made a command decision and that's the end of it. He eats breakfast 80 yards away from 4000 Cubans who are trained to kill him, and no one's gonna tell him how to run his base. Least of all the pushy broad, the smart Jew, and the Harvard clown. I need to shake him and put him on the defensive.
sam		That's it? That's the plan?
kaffee		That's the plan.
sam		You're gonna trip Jessep and he's gonna confess.
kaffee		I'm not gonna trip him. I'm gonna lead him right where he's dying to go.
sam		And how are you gonna do that?
kaffee		I have no idea. I need my bat.
jo		What?
kaffee		 I need my bat. I think better with my bat. Where's my bat?
jo		I put it in the closet.
kaffee		You put it in the closet.
jo		I was tripping over it.
jo		He thinks better with his bat?
kaffee		Stay here, I'm going to the office for a while.
sam		Boy, he does think better with that bat.
kaffee		 I need you to do something.
jo		What's goin' on?
sam		I've gotta go out to Andrews.
kaffee		Is Sam here?
jo		Not yet.
kaffee		Where is he?
jo		He's on his way.
kaffee		Did he got the guys?
jo		Yes. Listen, can I talk to you for a second?
jo		How're you feeling?
kaffee		I think he's gonna have his hands full today.
jo		Listen.  ...don't go for it.
jo		 I'm special counsel for internal affairs, and I'm telling you, you could get in a lot of trouble.
kaffee		Why Lt. Commander Galloway... are you suggesting I back off a material witness?
jo		If you think you can't get him.  Yeah.
kaffee		Do you think I can get him?
jo		 I can't seem to defend people.
kaffee		You're my hero, Joanne.  Live with that.
randolph		 Call your witness.
kaffee		Where's Sam?
jo		He'll be here.
randolph		Lieutenant, call your witness.
kaffee		Defense calls Colonel Nathan Jessep.
ross		Colonel, do you solemnly swear that the testimony you will give in this General Court-Martial will be the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth so help you God?
jessep		Yes I do.
ross		Would you state your name, rank, and current billet for the record please, air?
jessep		Colonel Nathan R. Jessep, Commanding officer, Marine Ground Forces, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
ross		Thank you, sir, would you have a seat, please.
kaffee		Colonel, when you learned of Santiago's letter to the NIS, you had a meeting with your two senior officers, is that right?
jessep		Yes.
kaffee		The Executive Officer, Lt. Jonathan Kendrick, and the Company Commander, Captain Matthew Markinson.
jessep		Yes.
kaffee		And at present, Captain Markinson is dead, is that right?
ross		Objection. I'd like to know just what defense counsel is implying?
kaffee		I'm implying simply that, at present, Captain Markinson is not alive.
ross		Surely Colonel Jessep doesn't need to appear in this courtroom to confirm that information.
kaffee		I just wasn't sure if the witness was aware that two days ago, Captain Markinson took his own life with a .45 caliber pistol.
kaffee		Yes sir. Colonel, at the time of this meeting, you gave Lt. Kendrick an order, is that right?
jessep		I told Kendrick to tell his men that Santiago wasn't to be touched.
kaffee		And did you give an order to Captain Markinson as well?
jessep		I ordered Markinson to have Santiago transferred off the base immediately.
kaffee		Why?
jessep		I felt that his life might be in danger once word of the letter got out.
kaffee		Grave danger?
jessep		Is there another kind?
kaffee		We have the transfer order that you and Markinson co-signed, ordering that Santiago be lifted on a flight leaving Guantanamo at six the next morning. Was that the first flight off the bass?
jessep		The six a.m. flight was the first flight off the base.
kaffee		Colonel, you flew up to Washington early this morning, is that right?
jessep		Yes.
kaffee		I notice you're wearing your Class A appearance in dress uniform for court today.
jessep		 As are you, Lieutenant.
kaffee		Did you wear that uniform on the plane?
ross		Please the Court, is this dialogue relevant to anything in particular?
kaffee		The defense didn't have an opportunity to depose this witness, your honor. I'd ask the Court for a little latitude.
randolph		A very little latitude.
kaffee		Colonel?
jessep		I wore fatigues on the plane.
kaffee		And you brought your dress uniform with you.
jessep		Yes.
kaffee		And a toothbrush? A shaving kit? Change of underwear?
ross		Your honor.
kaffee		 Is the Colonel's underwear a matter of national security?
randolph		Gentlemen.  You better get somewhere fast with this, Lieutenant.
kaffee		Yes sir. Colonel?
jessep		I brought a change of clothes and some personal items.
kaffee		Thank you.
kaffee		 Pairs of camouflage pants, 6 camouflage shirts, 2 pairs of boots, 1 pair of brown shoes, 1 pair of tennis shoes, 8 khaki tee-shirts, 2 belts, 1 sweater --
ross		Please the Court, is there a question anywhere in our future?
randolph		Lt. Kaffee, I have to --
kaffee		I'm wondering why Santiago wasn't packed.
kaffee		 I'll tell you what, we'll get back to that one in a minute.
kaffee		 This is a record of all telephone calls made from your base in the past 24 hours. After being subpoenaed to Washington, you made three calls.
kaffee		 I've highlighted those calls in yellow. Do you recognize those numbers?
jessep		I called Colonel Fitzhuqhes in Quantico, Va. I wanted to let him know I'd be in town. The second call was to set up a meeting with Congressman Ramond of the House Armed Services Committee, and the third call was to my sister Elizabeth.
kaffee		Why did you make that call, sir?
jessep		I thought she might like to have dinner tonight.
ross		Judge --
randolph		I'm gonna put a stop to this now.
kaffee		Your honor, these are the telephone records from GITMO for August 6th. And these are 14 letters that Santiago wrote in nine months requesting, in fact begging, for a transfer.  Upon hearing the news that he was finally getting his transfer, Santiago was so excited, that do you know how many people he called? Zero. Nobody. Not one call to his parents saying he was coming home. Not one call to a friend saying can you pick me up at the airport. He was asleep in his bed at midnight, and according to you he was getting on a plane in six hours, yet everything he owned was hanging neatly in his closet and folded neatly in his footlocker. You were leaving for one day and you packed a bag and made three phone calls. Santiago was leaving for the rest of his life, and he hadn't called a soul and he hadn't packed a thing. Can you explain that? The fact is there was no transfer order. Santiago wasn't going anywhere, isn't that right, Colonel.
ross		Object. Your Honor, it's obvious that Lt. Kaffee's intention this morning is to smear a high ranking marine officer in the desperate hope that the mere appearance of impropriety will win him points with the jury. It's my recommendation, sir, that Lt. Kaffee receive an official reprimand from the bench, and that the witness be excused with the Court's deepest apologies.
randolph		 Overruled.
ross		Your honor --
randolph		The objection's noted.
kaffee		 Colonel?
kaffee		 Is this funny, sir?
jessep		No. It's not. It's tragic.
kaffee		Do you have an answer?
jessep		Absolutely. My answer is I don't have the first damn clue. Maybe he was an early morning riser and he liked to pack in the nq. And maybe he didn't have any friends. I'm an educated man, but I'm afraid I can't speak intelligently about the travel habits of William Santiago.  What I do know is that he was set to leave the base at 0600. Now are these really the questions I was called here to answer? Phone calls and footlockers? Please tell me you've got something more, Lieutenant. Please tell me there's an ace up your sleeve. These two marines are on trial for their lives. Please tell me their lawyer hasn't pinned their hopes to a phone bill.  Do you have any other questions for me, counselor?
randolph		Lt. Kaffee?
randolph		 Lieutenant, do you have anything further for this witness?
jessep		 Thanks, Danny. I love Washington.
kaffee		Excuse me, I didn't dismiss you.
jessep		I beg your pardon.
kaffee		I'm not through with my examination. Sit down.
jessep		Colonel.
kaffee		What's that?
jessep		 I'd appreciate it if he addressed me as Colonel or Sir. I believe I've earned it.
randolph		Defense counsel will address the witness as Colonel or Sir.
jessep		 I don't know what the hell kind of an outfit you're running here.
randolph		And the witness will address this Court as Judge or Your Honor. I'm quite certain I've earned it. Take your seat, Colonel.
jessep		 What would you like to discuss now! My favorite color?
kaffee		Colonel, the six a.m. flight, was the first one off the base?
jessep		Yes.
kaffee		There wasn't a flight that left seven hours earlier and landed at Andrews Airforce Base at 2 a.m.?
randolph		Lieutenant, I think we've covered this, haven't we?
kaffee		Your Honor, these are the Tower Chief's Logs for both Guantanamo Bay and Andrews Airforce Base. The Guantanamo log lists no flight that left at eleven p.m., and the Andrews log lists no flight that landed at 2 a.m. I'd like to admit them as Defense Exhibits "A" and "B".
randolph		I don't understand. You're admitting evidence of a flight that never existed?
kaffee		We believe it did, sir.  Defense'll be calling Airman Cecil O'Malley and Airman Anthony Perez. They were working the ground crew at Andrews at two a.m. on the seventh.
ross		Your Honor, these men weren't on the list. Rebuttal witnesses, Your Honor, called specifically to refute testimony offered under direct examination.
randolph		I'll allow the witnesses.
jessep		This is ridiculous.
kaffee		Colonel, a moment ago --
jessep		Check the Tower Logs for christ's sake.
kaffee		We'll get to the airmen in just a minute, sir. A moment ago said that you ordered Kendrick to order his men not to touch Santiago.
jessep		That's right.
kaffee		And Kendrick was clear on what you wanted?
jessep		Crystal.
kaffee		Any chance Kendrick ignored the order?
jessep		Ignored the order?
kaffee		Any chance he just forgot about it?
jessep		No.
kaffee		Any chance Kendrick left your office and said, "The 'old man's wrong"?
jessep		No.
kaffee		When Kendrick spoke to the platoon and ordered them not to touch Santiago, any chance they ignored him?
jessep		Have you ever spent time in an infantry unit, son?
kaffee		No sir.
jessep		Ever served in a forward area?
kaffee		No sir.
jessep		Ever put your life in another man's hands, ask him to put his life in yours?
kaffee		No sir.
jessep		We follow orders, son. We follow orders or people die. It's that simple. Are we clear?
kaffee		Yes sir.
jessep		Are we clear?
kaffee		Crystal.
kaffee		 Colonel, I have just one more question before I call Airman O'Malley and Airman Perez: If you gave an order that Santiago wasn't to be touched, and your orders are always followed, then why would he be in danger, why would it be necessary to transfer him off the base?
jessep		Private Santiago was a sub-standard marine. He was being transferred off the base because --
kaffee		But that's not what you said. You said he was being transferred because he was in grave danger.
jessep		 Yes. That's correct, but --
kaffee		You said, "He was in danger". I said, "Grave danger". You said --
jessep		Yes, I recall what --
kaffee		I can have the Court Reporter read back your --
jessep		I know what I said. I don't need it read back to me like I'm a damn --
kaffee		Then why the two orders?  Why did you --
jessep		Sometimes men take matters into their own hands.
kaffee		No sir. You made it clear just a moment ago that your men never take matters into their own hands. Your men follow orders or people die. So Santiago shouldn't have been in any danger at all, should he have, Colonel?
jessep		You little bastard.
ross		Your Honor, I have to ask for a recess to --
kaffee		I'd like an answer to the question, Judge.
randolph		The Court'll wait for answer.
kaffee		If Kendrick told his men that Santiago wasn't to be touched, then why did he have to be transferred?
kaffee		 Colonel?
kaffee		 Kendrick ordered the code red, didn't he? Because that's what you told Kendrick to do.
ross		Object!
randolph		Counsel.
kaffee		And when it went bad, you cut these guys loose.
ross		Your Honor --
randolph		That'll be all, counsel.
kaffee		You had Markinson sign a phony transfer order --
ross		Judge --
kaffee		You doctored the log books.
ross		Damnit Kaffee!!
kaffee		I'll ask for the forth time. You ordered --
jessep		You want answers?
kaffee		I think I'm entitled to them.
jessep		You want answers?!
kaffee		I want the truth.
jessep		You can't handle the truth!
jessep		 I have neither the time nor the inclination to explain myself to a man who rises and sleeps under the blanket of the very freedom I provide, then questions the manner in which I provide it. I'd prefer you just said thank you and went on your way. Otherwise, I suggest you pick up a weapon and stand a post. Either way, I don't give a damn what you think you're entitled to.
kaffee		 Did you order the code red?
jessep		 I did the job you sent me to do.
kaffee		Did you order the code red?
jessep		 You're goddamn right I did.
kaffee		Please the court, I suggest the jury be dismissed so that we can move to an immediate Article 39a Session. The witness has rights.
randolph		Lt. Ross?
kaffee		 Jack.
randolph		The Sergeant at Arms will take the jury to an ante-room where you'll wait until further instruction.
jessep		What the hell's going on?
jessep		 Captain, what the hell's going on? I did my job. I'd do it again. Now I'm getting on a plane and going back to my base.
randolph		M.P.'s, guard the prisoner.
ross		Guard the prisoner.
jessep		What the hell --
ross		Colonel Jessep, you have the right to remain silent. Any statement you do make can be used against you in a trial by court-martial or other judicial or administrative proceeding. You have the right...
jessep		I'm being charged with a crime? I'm -- that's what this is --  I'm being charged with a crime? I'm -- that's what's happening? This -- I'm -- this is funny, you know that, this is --
jessep		 I'm gonna tear your eyes right outta your head and piss in your dead skull. You fucked with the wrong marine.
ross		Colonel Jessep, do you understand those rights as I have just read then to you?
jessep		I saved lives. That boy was -- there was a weak link. I saved lives, you hear me?
jessep		 All you did was weaken a country today, Kaffee. That's all you did. You put people in danger. Sweet dreams, son.
kaffee		Don't call me son.  I'm a lawyer, and an officer of the United States Navy. And you're under arrest you sonofabitch.
kaffee		 The witness is excused.
randolph		Have the jurors reached a verdict?
jury foreman		We have, sir.
randolph		 On the charge of Murder, the Members find the defendants Not Guilty.
randolph		 On the charge of Conspiracy to Commit Murder, the Members find the defendants Not Guilty.
randolph		 On the charge of Conduct Unbecoming a United States Marine, the members find the defendants Guilty as Charged.
randolph		 The defendants are hereby sentenced by this court to time already served, and are ordered...
randolph		 This Court-Martial is adjourned.
dawson		Why?
kaffee		Harold, I'm sorry.
dawson		Why?!
downey		I don't understand. Colonel Jessep said he ordered the Code Red.
jo		I know, but --
downey		Colonel Jessep said he ordered the Code Red, what did we do wrong?
jo		It's not as simple as --
downey		What did we do wrong?
dawson		We did nothing wrong.
sam		Yes you did! A jury just said your conduct was unbecoming a marine. What does that mean?!
dawson		You're the lawyer.
sam		You're the marine.
dawson		Not anymore.
dawson		 I never meant to hurt Willy.
kaffee		Harold!
dawson		Sir!
kaffee		 You don't need to wear a patch on your arm to have honor.
dawson		Ten-hut.
dawson		 There's an officer on deck.
ross		Airmen Cecil O'Malley and Anthony Perez? What exactly were these guys gonna testify to?
kaffee		Unless I'm mistaken they were gonna testify, under oath, that they have absolutely no recollection of anything.
ross		Strong witnesses.
kaffee		And very handsome, too, don't you think?
ross		I'll see you around the campus. I've gotta go arrest Kendrick.
kaffee		Tell him I say "Hi".
ross		Will do.
jo		What do you say we take the rest of the day off. Go out someplace. Sam? Champagne? Yoo-Hoo?
sam		Thanks, I can't. I'm gonna go home and talk to my daughter. I think she's gotta be bilingual by now.
jo		So what's next for you?
kaffee		Staff Sargeant Henry Williamson. He went to the movies on company time. What about you?
jo		Me? Oh... you know... the usual.
kaffee		Just pretty much generally annoying people?
jo		Yeah.  So what do you say? How 'bout a celebration?
kaffee		No. How 'bout a date. A real date. Dinner. Attractive clothes. The works.
jo		Sounds good.  Who do you think I should call?
kaffee		I'll pick you up at seven.
jo		What are you gonna do now?
kaffee		I'm gonna get started on Henry Williamson.  Stand my post for a while.
jo		Wear matching socks.
****Dialogues from script :a_most_violent_year.txt****

****Dialogues from script :a_scanner_darkly.txt****

first draft		 December 20, 1997
nursery clerk		Eating the bushes?   Could be aphids.
jerry fabin		Aphids! Of course. Y'know, I started with "A" in my cyclopedia, yet somehow I must've skipped right over aphids. It does start with "A", right? Aphids?
nursery clerk		Yes.   Yes, it does, sir.
jerry fabin		Boy, those fuckers can really bite.
nursery clerk		Aphids don't bite people.
charles freck		Hey, Jerry, I was in the neighborhood looking to score, and I thought -- What the fuck are you doing in the shower with the goddamn dog?
jerry fabin		I got to get the aphids.
charles freck		I don't see any aphids. What's an aphid?
jerry fabin		 It eventually kills you.       That's what an aphid is.
jerry fabin		They're in my hair and my skin and my lungs. The goddamn pain is unbearable. I'm gonna have to go to the hospital.
charles freck		 How come I can't see them though?
jerry fabin		I'll find an especially big one, cause they're hard for many people to see.
charles freck		Wow!    That is a big one!
jerry fabin		Help me find more for the doctor to see.
charles freck		What do we get for these? I mean, does the doctor pay a bounty or something? A prize? Any bread?
jerry fabin		I get to help perfect a cure for them.
jerry fabin		Hey, man, you continue while I take a leak and like that.
charles freck		Jerry, these bugs sort of scare me.    I don't like it here by myself.
jerry fabin		You're a chickenshit bastard, Freck.
charles freck		Couldn't you --
jerry fabin		I got to take a leak and like that!
jerry fabin		Then go fuck yourself, man!
jerry fabin		Yeah they bite! They're aphids!
charles freck		Can I wash them off and wait for you?
fat businessman		Gentlemen, we have a wonderful opportunity this afternoon. The county of Orange has provided us with the chance to hear from -- and put questions to -- an undercover narcotics agent from the Sheriff's Office.
bob arctor		 Nitwits. Pathetic, soulless morons.
fat businessman		This man -- whom we will call Fred, because that is the code name under which he reports the information he 
fred		If you saw me on the street, you'd say, "There goes a weirdo freak doper." And you'd feel aversion and walk away.
bob arctor		What I fear, is that our children, your children and my children...  8. CONTINUED:
bob arctor		... calculatedly addicted, for profit, by those who would destroy this society. We do not yet know who these animals are who pray on our young, but one day we will.
fred		We believe there is one source for Substance D and a diversified distribution system making it accessible in all major drug using areas. It my job as an undercover officer to attain the confidence of low level dealers and work my way up through the network to arrive at the drug's source. Now, the profits for...
bob arctor		Well, it isn't the profits anyhow. It's something else... what you see ...
headphone voice		I think you'd better go back to the prepared text, Fred.
bob arctor		 I forgot it.
headphone voice		Riiight. I'll read it to you. Repeat it after me, but try to make it sound casual. "Each day the profits flow. Where they go we will soon determine."
bob arctor		 I got a block against this stuff.
headphone voice		"Then retribution will swiftly follow. And at that moment, for the life of me, I would not be in their shoes."
bob arctor		 You know why I've got a block against this stuff? Because this bullshit is what gets people on dope.
fred		"D" is for Substance D. Which is for Dumbness, Despair, and Desertion, the desertion of your friends from you, you from them, everyone from everyone, isolation and loneliness and hating and suspecting each other. D is finally death. Slow Death, we...  ... we the dopers call it...
bob arctor		 Well, that's it.
headphone voice		See me in my office when you get back.
fat businessman		I forgot to tell you that Fred asked me in advance to make this lecture primarily a Q and A forum with only a short introductory statement. So any questions?
bob arctor		Just this. Don't kick their asses after they're on it. Half of them, especially the girls, didn't know they were getting on anything at all. See, the pushers dissolve some reds in a glass of wine, they give the booze to an underage little chick, she passes out, then they inject her with a mex hit -- half heroin, half Substance D.  Thank you.
fred		Kill the pushers.
charles freck		Can you lay about ten Deaths on me?
telephone voice		Christ, I'm looking to score myself.
charles freck		Christ.  Christ. Christ Christ Christ.
charles freck		Fucking goddamn fuzzmobile. What was I doing? Was I weaving? I don't even know.
charles freck		Hey!
donna hawthorne		No.  Get lost.
charles freck		Sure you are. I met you at his place.
charles freck		Jeez.   I just...
donna hawthorne		I thought you were going to knock me down and bang me.
charles freck		No. I just wondered if you, like, wanted a ride or... Bang you on the sidewalk? In broad daylight?
donna hawthorne		I thought you might pull me into a doorway or something.
charles freck		I know you. Besides Arctor would snuff me if I did that.
donna hawthorne		Well, I didn't recognize you.    I'm sort of nearsighted.
charles freck		You want a ride where you're going?
donna hawthorne		You'll bang me in the car.
charles freck		Nah. Besides I can't get it up these days. Must be something they're adulterating all the stuff with.
donna hawthorne		That's a neat-o line, but I've heard it before. Everybody bangs me. At least they try to. That's what it's like to be a chick.
charles freck		That really sucks.
donna hawthorne		I'm suing one guy right now for molestation and assault. We're asking punitive damages in excess of forty thousand.
charles freck		How far he get?
donna hawthorne		A hand around my boob.
charles freck		That's not worth forty thousand.
charles freck		Listen, you got anything to sell?    I'm really hurting.
donna hawthorne		I can get it.
charles freck		Tabs, though. I don't shoot up. Needles are a bummer to me.
donna hawthorne		Sixty dollars a hundred.
charles freck		Jeez, man, that's a burn.
donna hawthorne		They're super good. Take my word.
charles freck		All right.     A hundred, then.
donna hawthorne		Cool.     How do I get in touch?
charles freck		Charles B. Freck --
donna hawthorne		V. Freck? CHARLES FRECK Charles Freck. She corrects the name. Freck notices that her writing is a slow and childish scrawl. It makes him sad. Then he steals a glance at her breasts as she writes.
donna hawthorne		I think I remember you now.
charles freck		Hey, you want to go with me to see Jerry Fabin? I'm hauling some of his stuff over to the Number Three Federal Clinic where they took him last night.
donna hawthorne		I better not. Jerry thinks I contaminated him originally with those bugs.
charles freck		They're aphids.
donna hawthorne		Yeah, well, then he didn't know what they were.
bob arctor		Fucking McDonaldburger's is taking over.
bob arctor		Donna.   How you doin'? It's Bob.
bob arctor		How's your head today, man?
bob arctor		Hey, can I get anything from you?
bob arctor		Ten.   Just ten.
bob arctor		Oh, wow.
donna hawthorne		You know what the male wolf does when he defeats a foe? He doesn't snuff him. He pees on him! Then he splits.
bob arctor		I peed on some people today.
bob arctor		Metaphorically peed, I mean.
bob arctor		What I mean is, I told this group of...
bob arctor		I told 'em I'd rather ride a pig than a hog.
bob arctor		Well, a pig is a chick that --
bob arctor		They didn't try me at my job, did they?
bob arctor		The hell you say --
bob arctor		Fuck Barris! That cephscope cost me nine hundred dollars. I need to get home right now. But I gotta... Oh, fuck, man. Fuck fuck fuck Barris!
bob arctor		I gotta run an errand and like that.
bob arctor		I'm in a bad place. I wanna turn myself in for treatment.
charles freck		Hey, Barris, I'm thinking of turning myself in to New-Path.
jim barris		No shit.
charles freck		But it's tough, that cold turkey thing they do. They watch you night and day so you don't snuff. But they never give you anything, like a doctor will, like Valium or like that.
jim barris		Hey, what kind of bread is this on the patty melt, anyway?
charles freck		Look on the menu. It explains everything.
jim barris		If you go into New-Path, you'll experience symptoms that emanate up from the basic fluids of the body, specifically those located in the brain. By that I refer to the catecholamines, such as noradrenaline and serotonin. You see, Substance D functions this way: it interacts with the catecholamines in such a fashion that involement is locked in at a subcellular level. Biological counteradaptation has occurred.  Nine-grain wheat.
waitress		So is everything good, fellas?
jim barris		Say, is your name Patty?
waitress		No.  It's Beth.
charles freck		 I wonder what the left one's called.
waitress		I'm sorry, hon?
charles freck		No.   Nothing.
jim barris		The waitress we had last time was named Patty. Same as the sandwich.
waitress		That must have been a different Patty from the sandwich. I think she spells it with an i.
jim barris		Everything is super good.
charles freck		Everything is not good with me. I got a lot of problems nobody else has.
waitress		Oh, no.   That's too bad.
jim barris		More people than you think have such problems. This is a world of illness, and getting progressively worse.
waitress		 So would you guys like to order dessert? We have fresh peach pie.
charles freck		No!   No, we don't want any dessert!
bob arctor		This place is the only hope I could think of. I had a friend come in here. A black dude, in his thirties --
bob arctor		I am bad off.
bob arctor		Okay, but listen, this black guy, my buddy, goes by the name of Spade, did he make it here? I sure hope he didn't get picked up by the pigs on the way over.
jim barris		Tell me, why the debate regarding turning yourself in for residence therapy at a drug rehab facility?
charles freck		My friend Jerry Fabin and his aphids.
jim barris		 Fabin was a special case.
charles freck		There's another reason. I'm running low again, and I can't stand this always running low and not knowing if I'm ever going to score again. Actually, though, I may have a new source. That Donna chick.
jim barris		Oh, Bob's girl.
charles freck		His old lady.
jim barris		No.   He never got into her pants.
charles freck		Really?   Can't Bob get it on?
jim barris		 It's possible Donna's on junk. Her aversion to bodily contact -- junkies lose interest in sex, you see, due to their organs swelling up from vasoconstriction. And Donna shows inordinate failure of sexual arousal, not just to Bob, but to... other males as well.
charles freck		I never shot smack. Needles are a bummer to me.
jim barris		 But... I can show you how to lay Donna for ninety-eight cents.
charles freck		I don't want to lay her. I just want to buy from her.
jim barris		Donna does coke. Anybody who would give her a gram of coke she would undoubtedly spread her legs for.
charles freck		I wish you wouldn't talk that way. Besides who has the money to procure a gram of coke?
jim barris		I, my friend, can derive a gram of coke for a total cost to me of under one dollar. From a product readily
charles freck		That's bullshit.
charles freck		Which 7-11 store do you prefer to shop at? The one on Lincoln is nice.
charles freck		Although what about the one on 8th? They have the wider aisles. A more spacious shopping experience.
jim barris		Let's not forget the one on Katella with the foxy cashier to hit on.
charles freck		What's with Bob's cephscope, his prize possession of the entire world?
jim barris		Oh, it's been sabotaged by person or persons unknown.
charles freck		This is super unreal. I'm flipping.
jim barris		Now I'll freeze it, which causes the cocaine crystals to rise to the top because they are lighter than air.
charles freck		Even if you do get a gram of coke out of thisl, I can't use it to get into Donna's pants. That's like buying her.
jim barris		You give her a gift she gives you one. The most precious gift a woman has.
charles freck		You're talking about Bob Arctor's girl, Barris. He's my friend and the guy you and Luckman live with.
jim barris		There's a great deal about Bob Arctor you're not aware of. Your view is simplistic and naive, and you believe about him what he wants you to.
charles freck		 I do not.
hank		That covers Barris and Freck. Let's see, I guess we can write Jerry Fabin off.
fred		I read his EEG analysis.    Fabin's over.
hank		Good riddance. Any luck locating our missing pusher friend Spade Weeks?
fred		New-Path wouldn't tell me shit. They're very protective of their own.
hank		Junkies, ex-junkies. It's a club.  What about Donna Hawthorne?
fred		I keep pumping her for more and more Death. Pretty soon she'll have to refer me up to her source.
hank		Fine.   And what's Arctor up to?
bob arctor		Bob Arctor? He's not doing anything much. Working at his nowhere Blue Chip Stamp job, dropping a few tabs of meth cut with Death during the day.
hank		That's not what I hear.
bob arctor		What do you mean?
hank		We have a tip that Arctor has funds above and beyond what he makes at the stamp redemption center.
fred		No shit, Hank. Is that true?
hank		And according to this information, Arctor comes and goes mysteriously. Have you observed any of this?
fred		Most likely he's with his chick, Donna.
hank		Most likely?    You're supposed to know.
fred		Yeah, it's Donna. He's over there banging her day and night. But I'll let you know. So, who's the informant?
hank		Hell, we don't know. No voice print. He used one of those rinky-dink grids.
fred		Christ, it's that burned-out acid head Barris doing a schizy grudge job on Arctor's head. I wouldn't give him the time of day as an informant.
hank		We don't know it's Barris. Anyway, there may be more to Barris than meets the eye. We're looking into him. Nothing I feel would be of use to you, at least so far.
fred		Well, it's one of Arctor's friends.
hank		Yeah. Undoubtedly a vengeance burn trip. But we need to know why Arctor's making these kind of enemies.
fred		Hank, I don't see this as an avenue of --
hank		So I'm taking you off Spade and, for the time being, I'm assigning you primarily to observe Bob Arctor.
fred		 You're assigning me to watch Arctor?
hank		Covertly funded, covertly engaged, Fred. It's worth checking into.
bob arctor		Fine. So I assume this means you'll be bugging Arctor's house and car?
hank		With the new holographic scanner system. This way you can study Arctor's every move on the tapes, and report back to us in detail.
fred		Sounds good, then.
hank		Good. You'll need to get Arctor and the boys away from the house so we can install the equipment.
charles freck		Why do you need a silencer, anyway, Jim? I mean, they're illegal.
ernie luckman		Law abidance has always been of the utmost concern to Jim Barris.
jim barris		In this day and age, with the kind of degenerate society we live in and the depravity of the individual, every person of worth needs a gun at all times. To protect himself.
ernie luckman		Just shut up and fire off the great eleven cent silencer of our times.
television jingle		It's real, it's Coke, it's really, really real. Really really really...
wife		Popcorn and Cokes, guys?
daughters		Yay, Popcorn and Cokes!
bob arctor		AH, FUCK!!
bob arctor		FUCKING POPCORN POPPER!    FUCK!
wife		Oh my God!
bob arctor		FUCK!
ernie luckman		Jesus, Barris. Y'know, you're supposed to be fixing the cephscope. Bob's lying in his bed right now thinking you're fixing his cephscope.
jim barris		Hey, Bob.    I thought you'd be sleeping.
bob arctor		Why the fuck would I screw up my own cephscope?
jim barris		No, no. You...  That was my complete, intended statement, which I was not allowed to utter.
bob arctor		You did it?
jim barris		I mean it's my theory that I did it. Under post-hypnotic suggestion. With an amnesia block so I wouldn't remember
bob arctor		Oh, Jesus, Barris. Go fuck yourself.
jim barris		Don't you see, Bob, I've got the advanced, specialized, technical, electronic skills. I have access, because I live here. It all fits.  What I can't figure out is my motive.
bob arctor		How about, you're a fucked-up lunatic?
jim barris		I might have been hired by secret forces. It could be as big as that, Bob. As huge as that.
bob arctor		Get lost.
jim barris		Oh, hold on, Bob. I forgot something. I forgot my antihistamine capsules.
ernie luckman		Jim Barris does not have allergies.
bob arctor		You guys track down Andy and the hot scope. I'll pick you up in two hours.
jim barris		And where are you off to?
bob arctor		Dropping in on a friend.
jim barris		Mysterious Bob Arctor.
kimberly		Yes?
bob arctor		It's me, Kimberly. Bob Arctor.
bob arctor		Are you alone?
kimberly		Dan and I had a fight and he split.
bob arctor		He beat you up?
kimberly		Thank God he didn't have his knife. His case-knife, which he now carries in a sheath on his belt.
bob arctor		Do you want him back?
kimberly		Well...  Who knows?
bob arctor		How long can you go without?
kimberly		Maybe. Maybe. Another day.
bob arctor		Can't you get it anywhere else? Y'know the name of Dan's supplier? Maybe you could deal directly.
kimberly		I dunno.
bob arctor		Yeah.
kimberly		Probably has his case-knife with him. Y'know, he keeps it in a sheath on his belt now.
bob arctor		You should call the police.
kimberly		No phone.
bob arctor		Kim, he'll kill you.
kimberly		 No.   I'm with someone.
dan		 I'll slash your tires, your fucking tires! And then I'll kill you!
kimberly		I got to stop him! I don't have insurance!
bob arctor		Tires aren't...
kimberly		 My tires!
bob arctor		That's what he wants you to do.
kimberly		Downstairs.   They have a phone!   Let me go!
kimberly		Open, please? Please? I need to call the police. Please let me call them.
bob arctor		 Thank you.
kimberly		 Hi, yeah, my boyfriend and me got into a fight because of these cowboy boots which were worth seven dollars. See, I said, they're mine, and he says, no, they're mine 'cause you gave them to me as a present. And I say but I bought them. Which makes them mine. Right? So he grabs 'em and I grab 'em, and I rip the backs of them with this can opener and... yes, I'll hold.
arctor		 This must be bad on you.
old man		It goes on all the time, them fighting, him saying he'll kill her.
old woman		We should have gone back to Denver.   I told you that.
old man		These terrible fights. On and on. Smashing things and screaming. And what's worse, every time --
old woman		Yes, tell him about that.
old man		Every time we go out, shopping or to mail a letter, we step in... what dogs leave.
old woman		 Dog doo.
ernie luckman		You ought to pass that truck, man. The humper's hardly moving.
jim barris		What the hell happened, Bob?
ernie luckman		The linkage from the pedal to the carb fell apart.
bob arctor		Shouldn't this locking ring hold the nut in place?
jim barris		The idle screw has been turned all the way out. So when the linkage parted, the override went up instead of down.
ernie luckman		Could it screw itself all the way out like that accidentally?
jim barris		No. A special tool would be needed. A couple, in fact. I have the tools to fix this, but back at the house.
ernie luckman		Hey, man, did this happen by accident or was it done deliberately? Like the cephscope.
jim barris		 You should've cut the ignition as soon as you realized what happened.
bob arctor		For a second I couldn't figure it out.
ernie luckman		 MOTHERFUCKER! Somebody did this intentionally! They fucking almost killed us!
bob arctor		 Maybe this is what's fucking us up, messing up our brains.
jim barris		Dope can't screw up a carb-idle adjustment, my friend.  You'd better take at least three of these. They're primo, but mild.
bob arctor		Put the fucking snuffbox away!
ernie luckman		 Hey, do you smell something, man?   A clue? Some engine smell that --
bob arctor		 Dog shit! Do you smell dog shit?
ernie luckman		 Were there any psychedelics in that dope?
bob arctor		It's an illusion, right? There's no dog shit smell. How could there be dog shit in the eng...
ernie luckman		Hey, man, you're getting a flashback.
jim barris		 Free theater tickets.
ernie luckman		Now just take it easy. Nobody got killed and now we're warned. It's okay. It's okay. Everything's okay.
jim barris		Hey, Bob, want a lump of dog shit?   To chew on?
bob arctor		What, Jim?   What'd you say?
ernie luckman		 Leave him alone, man. Fuck off.
bob arctor		 What did Barris say just now? What the hell exactly did he just say?
ernie luckman		I don't know, man. I can't figure out half the things he lays on people.
bob arctor		You goddamn Barris! I know you did it, screwed over the cephscope and now my car! You kinky freak mother bastard!
ernie luckman		Take it easy, Bob.
bob arctor		I know it's him, man. I know.
ernie luckman		That doesn't make any sense.      He'd have snuffed himself too.
ernie luckman		What was in those tabs you gave us?
jim barris		Hell, I took some too. And so did you. Didn't give us a bad trip. Besides it was so soon. Your stomach can't even absorb --
bob arctor		YOU FUCKING POISONED ME!
ernie luckman		I wonder what's been going on back at the house.
bob arctor		Yeah, I hope.
jim barris		Oh, I wouldn't worry too much about that, gents.
ernie luckman		Christ, Barris, they may have ripped off everything we got, or stomped all our animals, or --
jim barris		But I left a little surprise for anyone entering the house. An electronic surprise, if you will.
bob arctor		What kind of surprise? It's my house, Jim, you can't start rigging up --
jim barris		Easy.   Be cool.
bob arctor		Well, what is it?
jim barris		If the front door is opened, my tape recorder starts recording.
bob arctor		You should've told me.
ernie luckman		What if they come in the window or through the back door?
jim barris		To increase the chance of them making their entry via the front door, I providentially left it unlocked.
bob arctor		Well, they're not going to expect it to be unlocked, so they'll go in the window.
jim barris		But I put a note on the front door.
bob arctor		You're jiving me.
jim barris		Yes.
ernie luckman		Are you fucking jiving us or not?   I can't tell with you, man. Is he jiving us or not, Bob?
bob arctor		We'll see when we get back. If there's a note on the door and it's unlocked, we'll know he's not jiving us.
ernie luckman		But they'd probably take the note down and lock the door after vandalizing and robbing us. So we'll never know. It's that gray area again. Damn it!
jim barris		Of course I'm kidding, guys! Only a psychotic would leave the front door open with a note on it.
bob arctor		So what did you write on the note, Jim?
jim barris		I wrote: "Donna, come on in, the door's unlocked. We..." The note's to Donna.
ernie luckman		He did do that. He really did it.
jim barris		This way, we'll know who's been messing with us, Bob. And that is of prime importance.
bob arctor		Jesus, Barris.
jim barris		Interesting. Everything is exactly as we left it. They're very clever.
ernie luckman		Well, Barris, I can see you're right. There was definitely someone here. You see, the scrupulous covering-over of all signs they otherwise would've left testifies to their --  Barris, you're one paranoid fuck.
jim barris		Look at this!
ernie luckman		A still-hot butt. It sure is.
bob arctor		My God, who was here?
ernie luckman		Wait, this is what's hot.  But what'd they do? What the fuck did they do?
jim barris		That roach may not be a slip-up. Maybe they were here specifically to plant dope, then phone in a tip later. Maybe there's dope planted all over this house. We're going to have to go through and get this place clean.
ernie luckman		I'll check the wall sockets.   You take apart the tv and stereo.
jim barris		Wait. If they see us scrambling around before the raid --
bob arctor		What raid?
jim barris		-- then we can't allege, even though it's true, that we didn't know the dope was there. Maybe that, too, is part of their ingenious plan.
ernie luckman		We're fucked! We can't do anything!
bob arctor		Did you forget about the recorder, Jim?
jim barris		Oh yes. The tape should be extremely informational at this point.  Well, it probably wouldn't ultimately have proven that important.
bob arctor		Forget to turn it on, did you?
jim barris		No. The first thing they did upon entering was switch it to "off".
ernie luckman		It's off?    Fuck! Those fuckers.
jim barris		They made their move swiftly, before so much as an inch of tape pasesd through the recording head.
ernie luckman		Now what?    Now what the fuck do we do?
jim barris		You know, Bob, there is one thing you could do, although it would take time.
bob arctor		Sell the house?
ernie luckman		Does anybody know a good realtor?
jim barris		I've got an acquaintance in the field.
ernie luckman		We should probably act fast, man.
jim barris		We don't know how fast they're gonna swoop down on us.
bob arctor		What reason should we give for selling?
ernie luckman		Yeah, we can't tell the truth. We need a shuck. Barris, what's a good shuck?
bob arctor		We'll just flat out say there's narcotics planted all over the place and since we don't know where, we decided to move out and let the new owner get busted instead of us.
jim barris		No. I don't think we can afford to be that up front. Bob, you say you got a job transfer.
ernie luckman		Where to, though? Where the fuck to?
jim barris		Cleveland.
bob arctor		I say we tell them the truth. In fact, we can put an ad in the Times: "Modern, three bedroom tract house, two bathrooms for easy flushing, with high grade dope stashed in all rooms." It's a selling point.
ernie luckman		But they'd be calling asking what kind of dope, and we don't know. Man!
jim barris		Or how much. Prospective buyers might inquire about the quantity.
bob arctor		 They appear to have us.
ernie luckman		Christ, this is awful!
donna hawthorne		Hey, I came in, like the note said.   I waited for you for awhile, then I crashed. Why are you guys yelling?
bob arctor		Did you smoke a joint? Before you crashed?
donna hawthorne		Of course. Otherwise I can't sleep. You shouldn't leave your place unlocked like that. You could get ripped off and it would be your own fault. That's the main reason I came in when I saw the note. Somebody ought to be here if the place is unlocked with a note on it.
bob arctor		How long have you been here?
ernie luckman		Well, you could've taken down the note, locked the door, and left.
donna hawthorne		Approximately thirty-eight minutes. Hey, Bob, I got that wolf book, if you want to see it. It's got a lot of heavy shit in it.
jim barris		Life is only heavy and none else; heavy that leads to the grave. For everyone and everything.
donna hawthorne		Did you say you were selling the house? Or was that me dreaming?
bob arctor		Shit, I hope it was you dreaming.
hank		Here are the locations of the eight scanners. We transmit to a safe house down the block from Arctor's.
fred		That's where I do playback?
hank		Yeah. And we use also use it for playback on five other houses. So you'll be bumping into other undercover people. Always wear your scramble suit.
fred		Fine.
hank		Make note of the scanner locations. If they need servicing, you can take care of it while you're at Arctor's. As long as nobody's around.
fred		I'll have to edit myself out, so you won't see who's fixing the scanners.
hank		Right. Although we assume you're Barris, or Luckman, or Freck, or Arctor or Donna Hawthorne --
fred		 Donna?
hank		So don't edit yourself from all tapes, or we'll deduce who you are by process of elimination. Leave yourself in in places. Be creative. Have fun.
fred		Okay.
hank		This will help greatly in determining what the hell Arctor's up to.
fred		We don't know he's up to anything.
hank		We've got more recent information. There is no doubt any longer: Arctor's a phony, a three dollar bill. So keep on him until we have enough to arrest him and make it stick.
fred		You think he's high up in Death distribution?
hank		What we think isn't of any importance to you. You report; we evaluate.
fred		Well, Arctor is doomed if he's up to anything. And I have a hunch from what you say that he is.
hank		We should have a case on him soon. Then we can seize his house. I think you'd like it. It's rundown and dirty, but it's big. Nice yard. The installation crew reported it has excellent possibilities.
fred		For what?
hank		Well, the living room gives a view of the intersection, so passing vehicles could be graphed and... but Burt What's-his-face, who headed the crew, felt that it'd been allowed to deteriorate so badly that --
fred		Deteriorate in what way?
hank		The roof.
fred		The roof's perfect.
hank		Interior and exterior paint.    The condition of the floors.
fred		Bullshit.    It's all fine.
hank		Then you recommend we acquire it after Arctor's arrested and loses title?
fred		I have no opinion.
hank		You're not splitting yet.     You have to
fred		Hank, if this is about the Lion's Club speech, I've already explained --
hank		This is something different.
fred		Yes.
fred		Look, about the Lion's Club --
fred		You think I'm an addict?
fred		 I see a Coke bottle, I guess.
fred		Is this about the Lion's Club speech?
fred		Getting what?
fred		I don't think I'm getting that.
fred		Okay.
fred		A sheep.
fred		I'm sorry, what did you say?
fred		Nothing. I'm guessing it's not a sheep. But was I close at least?
fred		It's what?    What did you say it is?
fred		Oh.   How can you tell?
charles freck		Okay okay okay. So I go to Barris, "Hey, Barris, I bought a methedrine plant today," and he goes...  "I meant I inherited forty thousand dollars from an uncle and purchased a plant in this guy's garage where he makes meth. It's a factory. Plant in that sense... ' Okay okay, I don't have the phrasing exactly yet, but when I lay this on Barris, man, I'm going to get him so good.
charles freck		Hey, Jim, I bought a meth plant today.
jim barris		How big?
charles freck		What do you mean?
jim barris		How big a plant?
charles freck		 Um, well... like, what do you mean?
bob arctor		How much you pay, Freck?
charles freck		Uh, about ten bucks.
bob arctor		Jim could've gotten it for you cheaper.
jim barris		They're practically giving meth plants away.
charles freck		This is a whole fucking garage! A factory! It turns out a million pills a day!
jim barris		 All that for ten bucks?
bob arctor		Where's it located, Freck?
charles freck		Not around here. Hey, fuck it, you guys.
bob arctor		 What about the carb?
jim barris		Bent choke shaft. The whole carb needs to be rebuilt.
bob arctor		Why is it bent?
ernie luckman		I phoned and they're checking to see what a rebuilt carb will set you back. Hey, Freck.
charles freck		 Hey.
bob arctor		 Freck bought a meth plant today.
ernie luckman		Cool.    How big?
charles freck		Fuck off.
jim barris		 You could put a four barrel on instead of a two, while you're at it.
ernie luckman		It would idle too high. And it wouldn't upshift.
jim barris		The idling jets could be replaced with smaller jets. And he could watch his rpms with a tach. Usually just backing off the gas pedal causes it to upshift if the automatic linkage doesn't do it.
ernie luckman		If he tromped down heavy on the step- down passing gear to get a lot of torque suddenly on the freeway, it'd downshift and rev up so high it'd blow the whole engine.
jim barris		The tach needle would jump and he'd back off.
ernie luckman		While passing a big semi? He'd have to blow the engine up or he'd never get around what he was trying to pass.
jim barris		Momentum would carry him past.
ernie luckman		What about uphill?
jim barris		What does this car weigh, Bob?
bob arctor		About a thousand pounds.
jim barris		Well, you're right then. It wouldn't have much interia mass.  A thousand pounds traveling eighty miles an hour --
bob arctor		That's a thousand pounds with passengers, a full tank of gas, and a carton of bricks in the trunk.
ernie luckman		How many passengers, Bob?
bob arctor		Twelve.
ernie luckman		That's six in the back and six --
bob arctor		No. Eleven in the back and the driver alone up front. The extra weight is in the back so it doesn't fishtail.
jim barris		This car fishtails?
bob arctor		Unless you get eleven people in back.
jim barris		Be better, then, to have two three hundred pound bags of sand in the trunk. Then the passengers could be distributed more comfortably.
ernie luckman		What about one six hundred pound bag of gold, Jim?
jim barris		If you bastards wouldn't rappity-rap on like a bunch of speed freaks, I could complete my computations and tell you how this car with its weight would handle a four barrel carb. So shut the fuck up, you assholes!
ernie luckman		I'm going to read to you now, Barris.  "He to whom it is given to see Christ more real than any other reality... JIM BARRIS What?
ernie luckman		"...than any other reality in the World, Christ everywhere present and everywhere growing more great, Christ the final determination and plasmatic Principle of the Universe --"
bob arctor		What is that, Luckman?
ernie luckman		Teilhard de Chardin. "... that man indeed lives in a zone where no multiplicity can distress him and which is nevertheless the most active workshop of universal fulfillment."  64. CONTINUED:
charles freck		Cool it, you guys.
ernie luckman		Out of the way, Freck. I'm going to coldcock Barris into tomorrow for talking to his betters like that.
jim barris		I hear the phone ringing about the carb. I'll get it.
ernie luckman		I was just kidding.
charles freck		What if he comes back with his gun and silencer?
ernie luckman		Naw, stay, man, you're a brother.
charles freck		Naw, I'm cutting out.
jim barris		It was a wrong number, man.
ernie luckman		Hey, what's the hammer for, Jimmy-Boy?
bob arctor		To fix the engine. What else?
jim barris		Thought I would bring it with me, since I was indoors and noticed it.
charles freck		I'm gonna split. I'll see you guys.
bob arctor		The most dangerous kind of person is one who's afraid of his own shadow.
charles freck		Did Bob mean me afraid of my own shadow? But that was turning into a super-bummer. Where's the chicken into not wanting to be around that? Everything's changing, man. Used to be cool to hang out. Now its totally dark.
charles freck		Jerry! Jerry! Let me in, man, I'm truly bummed! I wanna talk!
charles freck		Fuck! I can't believe I forgot Jerry's dead. What is wrong with me?
charles freck		Fuck, I can't believe I forgot Jerry's not dead. What is wrong with me?
ernie luckman		You seem mellow, Bob. Having to spend a hundred bucks on a new carb wouldn't make me mellow.
bob arctor		I'll cruise the streets until I come across an Olds, then unbolt the carb. Like everyone else I know.
jim barris		Especially Donna. That chick steals everything she can carry.
ernie luckman		I'll tell you a Donna story. One day she put a quarter in a stamp machine and it kept spitting out stamps, till she had like eighteen thousand stamps.
jim barris		At what individual price per stamp?
ernie luckman		Fifteen cents per individual stamp.
jim barris		That's twenty-seven hundred dollars, if my arithmetic is correct.
ernie luckman		And so what's Donna gonna do with so many stamps? She can barely write...
ernie luckman		So she ripped off the whole stamp machine and remounted it, like, somewhere where the postal authorities wouldn't spot it and...
jim barris		You realize our taxes were raised by her stealing those stamps? It's one thing to steal auto parts, but when you steal from Uncle Sam --
bob arctor		I'm going out to score some beans. Luckman, is your Falcon running?
ernie luckman		 No.   I don't think so.
bob arctor		Barris?
jim barris		I wonder, Bob, if you can handle my car? By that mean there are --
ernie luckman		Fuck, Barris. It's an ordinary six cylinder. The parking lot jockeys park it all the time, for God's sake.
jim barris		There are certain secret devices which have been incorporated --
bob arctor		I'll walk.
jim barris		It's just that it has certain secret --
bob arctor		Forget it. If I tried to drive your car, I'd press the wrong button and float up over the greater L.A. area.
jim barris		I'm glad you appreciate my position.
ernie luckman		You're fucked, Barris. You know that?
fred		Would if I could, but this is live.
ernie luckman		 Fucking McDonaldburger commercials.
fred		Jesus fuck!   Barris!
jim barris		Operator, I need, I'm not sure, is it called the inhalator squad or the resuscitation squad?
operator		Is someone unable to breathe, sir?
jim barris		It is, I believe, cardiac arrest. Either that or involuntary aspiration of a bolus within the --
operator		What is the address, sir?
jim barris		The address, the address.      let's see...
fred		Christ!    Just --
jim barris		Uh, thank you. No assistance is needed after all. Good morrow.
ernie luckman		I must've gagged. Did I pass out?
jim barris		Not exactly. You did go into an altered state of consciousness for a few seconds. Probably an alpha state.
ernie luckman		Fuck. I shit myself.
jim barris		You saw me on the phone, summoning the paramedics. I moved into action immedi --
ernie luckman		Balls.
donna hawthorne		Did I scare you? Heh heh.
bob arctor		I just did a freaky number, not like a fantasy trip, but... So I'm kinda --
donna hawthorne		I have your stuff.
bob arctor		My stuff?
donna hawthorne		Your Death.
bob arctor		Fucking Barris. You know how he kills you? He doesn't. He waits until a situation arises where you die, and he just sits there. In fact he sets you up to die. I don't know how exactl --
donna hawthorne		Do you have the money?
bob arctor		What?
donna hawthorne		I need the money right now.
bob arctor		Sure.   Yeah.
donna hawthorne		I don't like Barris, and I don't trust him. He's crazy. And you're crazy when you're around him. You're crazy right now.
bob arctor		I am?
donna hawthorne		Yeah.
bob arctor		Donna, I know I can count on you to tell me if I'm getting weird or crazy or like that. Okay?
donna hawthorne		Hey, you wanna take me to a concert at Anaheim Stadium next weekend?
bob arctor		Right on.     Yeah. That sounds --
donna hawthorne		I'm gonna bring some really oily hash and get really loaded. But you have to wear something neat, not those funky clothes you sometimes wear.
bob arctor		I'll wear whatever you say.
donna hawthorne		I'm taking us to my place. And you do have the money and you'll give it to me. Then we'll drop a few of the tabs and kick back. Maybe you could buy a fifth of Southern Comfort and we could get bombed as well.
bob arctor		Oh, wow.   That sounds good.
donna hawthorne		You know what would be cool tonight, is to go to the Torrance Drive-in. They're showing all eleven Planet of the Apes movies. From 7:30 to 8:00 tomorrow morning.
bob arctor		Can a drive-in show movies in the morning?
donna hawthorne		I haven't seen all the Ape movies in years. And the last one for longer than that, the one where they reveal  73. CONTINUED:
donna hawthorne		Stay on the newspaper. I just had the rug shampooed.
bob arctor		Do you ever throw anything away?
donna hawthorne		Someday I'm gonna get married and I'm going to need all this stuff. When you get married, you need everything there is.
bob arctor		How much of what you've got did you buy and how much did you steal?
donna hawthorne		Buy?   What do you mean "buy"?
bob arctor		Like when you buy dope. Like a dope deal. When I mean by "buy" is an extension into the greater world of business transactions of what we have present now, with us, as dope deals.
donna hawthorne		I think I see what you're saying.
bob arctor		Like when you rip off those Coca-Cola truck you tailgate. That's stealing.
donna hawthorne		No.     It's a form of barter.
bob arctor		Donna, look, you're gonna get caught, and if you got drugs in your car when they catch you, there's nothing I can do to protect you then.
donna hawthorne		You protect me? What are you talking about?
bob arctor		Nothing.     I just... Please take care.
donna hawthorne		The Coca-Cola company is a capitalist monopoly. No one else can make it but them. That's fucking wrong.  C'mere, I'll supercharge you.
bob arctor		Okay, cool.
donna hawthorne		Yeah, I can dig it, you being in love with me.
bob arctor		Hey, Donna, man, do you like cats?
donna hawthorne		Dripping little things. Moving along about a foot above the ground.
bob arctor		No.   On the ground.
donna hawthorne		Drippy.    Behind furniture.
bob arctor		Little spring flowers, then?
donna hawthorne		Yes. Little spring flowers. With yellow in them. That first come up.
bob arctor		Before.    Before anyone.
donna hawthorne		Yes. Before anyone stomps on them and they're gone.
bob arctor		Yeah. You know me exactly, Donna. You can read me. No one knows me but you.
donna hawthorne		No more.
bob arctor		What's wrong?
donna hawthorne		Nothing.
bob arctor		Donna, can I put my arm around you.   I want to hold you, okay?
donna hawthorne		No, you're too ugly.
bob arctor		What?
donna hawthorne		No! Look, I snort a lot of coke; I have to be super careful because I snort a lot of coke.
bob arctor		Ugly?   Fuck you, Donna.
donna hawthorne		Just leave my body alone.
bob arctor		 Sure. Yeah. You better believe it.
donna hawthorne		 I have to watch out for that because I do so much coke. Someday I'm gonna go over the Canadian border with four pounds of coke in my snatch. I'll say I'm a Catholic and a virgin.
bob arctor		I'm taking off.
donna hawthorne		You don't have your car. I'll drive you, man.  But you can see why I have to protect my snatch --
bob arctor		You're too stoned to drive and you never let anyone else drive that little roller skate of yours.
donna hawthorne		 That's because no one else can fucking drive my car! Nobody else ever gets it right, no man especially! Driving or anything else! Listen, you had your hands down into my --
donna hawthorne		I'm dreadfully sorry I hurt your feelings. Okay? I was out of it.
bob arctor		 Too ugly.
donna hawthorne		Sometimes I get really spaced. You wanna come back? Or what? You wanna go to the drive-in? What about the Southern Comfort? C'mon, I'm sorry.
bob arctor		Okay.
donna hawthorne		That sure is good hash though, huh?
donna hawthorne		You know what I'm going to do someday, Bob? I'm going to move north to Oregon and live in the snow. Have a little house and a vegetable garden.
bob arctor		You'll have to save up for that.
donna hawthorne		 He'll get me that. What's-his-name.
bob arctor		Who?
donna hawthorne		 Mr. Right. He'll drive an Aston- Martin and take me north in it. And that's where the little old fashioned house will be in the snow.
bob arctor		You sure this'll happen?
donna hawthorne		It's in the cards.
bob arctor		Hey, man, can I go with you? To Oregon? When you do take off finally?
bob arctor		Here you go.
connie		Thanks, man.
bob arctor		Two of them do.
connie		You're queer?
bob arctor		I try not to be. That's why I've arranged this transaction with you.
connie		Yes, I suppose I'm about to find out.
telephone voice		Yeah?
jim barris		This is Jim.
telephone voice		Who?
jim barris		With the beard. Green shades. Leather pants. I met you at that happening at --
telephone voice		Oh, right.    Yeah. That guy.    Jim.
jim barris		Say, have I scored. Psylocybe Mexicana. A rare hallucinogenic mushroom used in South American mystery cults thousands of years ago. You fly, become invisible, understand the speech of animals --
telephone voice		Truly?   How much?
jim barris		Five dollars a cap.
fred		Mushrooms he seems to have picked locally.
fred		What's the statute violation?
fred		Hi, Bob.
bob arctor		 Hi.
jim barris		How'd you make out with little Miss Big Tits?
fred		Fuck off, Barris.
bob arctor		Fuck off, Barris.
jim barris		Bob, I'm sorry if I offended you.
bob arctor		Where's Luckman?
jim barris		He left with your jack, so I assume he's off to knock over pay phones.
bob arctor		My axle jack?
jim barris		Y'know, I have a sure fire way you could get into the pants of Little Miss Big Tits. For under one dollar.
bob arctor		Either you pay up your back rent or get to work fixing my godamn cephscope!
jim barris		Yes. About that, Bob. I've already ordered resistors --
jim barris		Yes, this is Robert Arctor.
jim barris		Oh, yes, I've been meaning to call you, but I've had a severe bout of intestinal flu, with loss of body heat, pyloric spasms, cramps...
jim barris		I just haven't been able to get it together to make that little twenty dollar check good, and frankly I don't intend to make it good.
jim barris		You heard me correctly.
jim barris		Think what you want. Turn out, tune out, and good-bye.
fred		Get me a name and address on this.
operator		Englesohn Locksmith, 1343 Harbor in Anaheim, Loverboy.
fred		Arctor must've burned Barris pretty bad to deserve this display of malice.
fred		Yeah.   I'm there.
fred		I suppose I can lay it on that one.  Without him flashing on me. He's docile.
fred		That can't be right. Arctor has never done it with Donna. Has he?
old lady		Yes sir?   Good morning.
bob arctor		Hi, I'm here...
bob arctor		... to pay for a check of mine the bank returned. It's twenty dollars.
old lady		Oh.   All-rightey.
old lady		Mr. Arctor, is it?
bob arctor		Yes, I am Mr. Arctor. Nobody else is.
old lady		Okay, sir. That'll be twenty dollars.
bob arctor		I'm sorry about this, but by mistake I wrote the check on a closed account.
old lady		My brother Carl.
bob arctor		I'd appreciate if you'd tell your brother that I was distraught when he called and I apologize for that, too.
old lady		I believe he said something about that, yes.
bob arctor		Any extra charge?
old lady		No extra charge.
bob arctor		I was distraught because a friend of mine had just passed-on suddenly.
old lady		Oh dear.
bob arctor		He choked to death alone, in his room, on a piece of meat. No one heard him.
old lady		You know, Mr. Arctor, more deaths happen from that than people realize. I read that if you're dining with a friend and he doesn't talk for a long time, you should ask him if he can, beacuse he may be strangling.
bob arctor		Yes. That's true. Thanks.      And thanks about the check.
old lady		Well, I'm sorry about your friend.
bob arctor		Yes.     He was the best friend I had.
old lady		How dreadful. I'll tell Carl. And thank you for coming all the way down.
bob arctor		Thank you. And thank Mr. Englesohn for me. Thank you both so much.
bob arctor		What if I, Bob Arctor, wrote this check myself and just don't remember?
bob arctor		I'm sorry to bother you again, ma'am, but I was just wondering what address do you have for that service call?
bob arctor		Yeah, I lost my ignition key.  34881 Main Street, Santa Ana...
bob arctor		So, Arctor's the forger, not Barris! Not deliberately, but because his brain is slushed on dope. All their brains are...
bob arctor		... slushed and mutually interacting in a slushed way.
bob arctor		Fucking waste of a perfectly good house. A family could live here, for Christ's sake.  Oughta take it away from this fuck.
bob arctor		 Nobody home, I guess.
bob arctor		Any given man sees only a tiny portion of the total truth, and...
charles freck		It is no problem how to kill yourself in the circles in which I hang. When life becomes more and more depressing as you watch those you know falling apart from drug use, just take a large quantity of reds.
charles freck		Wash 'em down with a bottle of cheap wine.
charles freck		You'll soon be sorry, Exxon, you ever tangled with Charles B. Freck! Junior!
bob arctor		Any given man sees only a tiny portion of Weh! steck' ich in dem Kerker noch? Verfluchtes the total truth, and very often, in fact almost perpetually dumpfes Mauerloch... FRED What the fuck is he talking about?
bob arctor		Wo selbst das liebe Himmelschlicht he deliberately deceives trub durch gemalte Scheiben bricht! FRED He's playing head games with us.   He's shucking us. The fucker!
bob arctor		 I'll be dipped.
ernie luckman		Hi, what's happening, Bob?
bob arctor		I drove by the Maylar Microdot Corporation building.
ernie luckman		You're shitting me.
bob arctor		One of the employees had evidently tracked the inventory out on the heel of his shoe. So they were all in the parking lot with many little magnifying glasses.
ernie luckman		 Any reward?
bob arctor		They had a reward, but they lost that, too. It was a little tiny penny.
ernie luckman		How large is the Maylar Microdot Corporation building?
fred		Pathetic, soulless nitwits.
bob arctor		About an inch high.
ernie luckman		Well, then how can you tell when you drive past it, if its only an inch?
bob arctor		They have a really big sign.
fred		Jesus.
ernie luckman		What's the sign look like?
bob arctor		Oh, just tell me.
ernie luckman		You smuggle it with a shipment of dope. Like heroin. The microdots are so small no one would notice.
bob arctor		That's a decent idea.
ernie luckman		Barris had this other idea for smuggling dope. You know how the custom guys, they ask you to declare what you have?
bob arctor		Right.
ernie luckman		Well, you take a huge block of hash and you carve it in the shape of a man. Then you hollow out a little section and put a wind-up motor in. And a cassette tape. And just before it goes through customs, you wind it up and it walks up to the man, who says, "Do you have anything to declare?" and it says, "No, I don't," and keeps on walking.
bob arctor		You put a solar battery in it, it could keep walking for years. Forever.
ernie luckman		What's the use of that?
bob arctor		Imagine an Eskimo village. And this six foot block of hash worth... What would it be worth?
ernie luckman		A billion dollars?
bob arctor		More. Two billion. So these Eskimos are chewing hides when this six foot block of hash comes walking through the snow saying, "No, I don't" over and over again.
ernie luckman		They'd wonder what it meant by that.
bob arctor		Legends would spring up.
ernie luckman		Can you imagine telling your grandkids, "I saw with my own eyes a six foot block of hash appear and walk past, worth two billion dollars, saying, "No, I don't." His grandchildren would have him committed.
bob arctor		But, see, legends build. So in a few centuries it would be, "In my forefathers' time, a ninety foot high block of extremely good quality  96. CONTINUED:
bob arctor		Afghanistan hash worth eight trillion dollars came at us dripping fire and screaming, "Die, Eskimo dogs!" And we fought and fought with it and finally killed it with our spears.
ernie luckman		The kids wouldn't believe that either.
bob arctor		Kids never believe anything anymore.
fred		Yeah?
telephone voice		Fred, we've processed your tests. We need you to come back for the full battery. Tomorrow at three. Do you remember the room number?
fred		Um... okay.
telephone voice		It's 203. Are you all right, Fred? Any confusion? Difficulty identifying persons or objects? Does anything you see appear inverted or reversed? Any space-time or language disorientation?
fred		Um, what?   I just... what exactly have you processed... that is, is this in regard to the Lion's Club speech?
telephone voice		We'll take all that up tomorrow, Fred.
ernie luckman		... this guy appeared on tv, claiming to be a world-famous imposter. He said he'd posed at one time or another as a great surgeon, a theoretical submolecular high-velocity particle research physicist, a Finnish novelist, a deposed president of Argentina...
bob arctor		He got away with it? Never got caught?
ernie luckman		See, the guy never really posed as any of it. He only posed as a world- famous imposter. Turns out he just pushed a broom at Disneyland, until he read about this actual world-famous imposter, and he thought, I can pose as all those things, then he thought, hell, I'll just pose as an imposter. Save a lot of time, a lot easier. Made almost as much money as the real imposter with books and movie rights.
jim barris		We see imposters in our lives, now and then. But not posing as physicists.
ernie luckman		Narks, you mean. Yeah, I wonder what a nark looks like?
bob arctor		It's like asking what an imposter looks like. I asked a hash dealer who'd been busted once what the nark who busted him looked like --
jim barris		Looked just like us.
bob arctor		More so. The dealer dude told me the nark had longer hair than we do. I guess the moral is, stay away from guys who look like us.
ernie luckman		Narks give me the creeps.
bob arctor		How could a guy do that is what I want to know, pose as a nark?
bob arctor		Shit, I'm spaced. Pose as a nark.
ernie luckman		POSE AS A NARK? POSE AS A NARK?
bob arctor		My brains are scrambled today.      I better go crash.
charles freck		I've been burned. These are not reds, but rather some freaky psychedelic, the likes of which I have never seen.
creature		We are no longer in the mundane universe. Your sins will be read to you ceaselessly throughout eternity.
charles freck		Know your fucking dealer, man.
creature		 November 14, 1962, 3:08:23 pm: you did knowingly and with malice aforethought punch your baby sister Evelyn on the left side of the head when your mother was not looking. November 14, 1962, 3:08:27 pm: you did knowingly and with malice aforethought punch your baby sister on the left arm when your mother was not looking. November 14, 1962, 3:08:32 pm: you did...
fred		Okay.
fred		This is the different one.
fred		Thank you.    Thank you all very much.
hank		Fred, is that you?
fred		Yes.
hank		Fred, this is the informant who phoned in about Bob Arctor.
fred		Sure I do.  You're James Barris, aren't you?
hank		His i.d. shows him to be, yes.
fred		What does he want?
jim barris		I have evidence that Mr. Arctor is part of a large, secret covert organization, well-funded, with arsenals of weapons at their disposal, probably dedicated to the overthrow --
hank		That part is speculation. We want to know what your firsthand evidence is.
fred		Have you ever been in a mental hospital, Mr. Barris?
jim barris		No, I have not, sir, ever been in a --
fred		Will you sign a sworn notarized statement regarding your evidence?
hank		He already has, Fred.
jim barris		My evidence, gentlemen, which I mostly don't have with me today, consits of tape recordings I have made of Robert Arctor's phone conversations.
fred		What is this covert organization?
jim barris		I believe it to be political in nature, and against this country.
fred		And what is Arctor's relationship to Substance D?
jim barris		When you examine my evidence, you will undoubtedly conclude that Substance D is produced by a foreign nation determined to overthrow the U.S., and  103. CONTINUED:
hank		Can you tells us the name of anyone else inside this organization?
jim barris		A Miss Donna Hawthorne. On various pretexts he goes over to her place and colludes with her regularly.
fred		Colludes?    What do you mean?
jim barris		I've followed him in my car, sir.
fred		She's his girl!
hank		 You think there's nothing to this?
fred		 Let's look at his evidence.
hank		 Maybe we should send an officer with him to retrieve it.
jim barris		There's one more thing. Mr. Arctor is addicted to Substance D. His mind is deranged now. He's become dangerous.
fred		Dangerous.
jim barris		He's already having episodes such as occur with brain damage from Substance D. Deterioration in the corpus callosum.
hank		This kind of unsupported speculation is worthless. We'll send an officer with you to collect your evidence.
jim barris		But, sirs --
hank		We'll arrange for an officer out of uniform, so it won't be conspicuous.
jim barris		I might be murdered. Mr. Arctor is, as I say --
hank		We appreciate your extreme risk, Mr. Barris. If your information is of significant value in obtaining a conviction, then naturally --
jim barris		That's not why I'm doing this. The man is sick. Brain damaged from Substance D. The reason I am here --
hank		We don't care why you're here. We only care if your evidence amounts to anything. The rest is your problem.
jim barris		Thank you, sirs. Thank you very much.
fred		Yes.
fred		Uh-huh.
fred		 Okay. Thank you.
fred		Why do I have two gas gauges?
fred		Will these go away?    These gas gauges?
fred		Wait. I'm confused.    Are you saying it is organic, or --
fred		Half a gas gauge?      What would that be like?
hank		Fred?
fred		Yeah.   Sorry I'm late.   I just...
hank		Would you identify the voices for us?
jim barris		The female's voice is a Miss Donna Hawthorne. The male is Bob Arctor.
jim barris		I can identify the biker gang also.
hank		You have more material of this sort?
jim barris		Much more. Much much more.     Much much much much much --
hank		Okay, great. What I'm going to do, Mr. Barris, is impound this material here for further study. You will be held in custody, charged with giving false information. This is, of course, only a pretext for your own safety, but the formal charge will be lodged anyhow. Is that satisfactory?
hank		What's your response, Fred, to Barris's evidence so far?
fred		Is that my medical report, Hank?
hank		Oh, it's a fake, Fred, for Christ sake.
fred		You might be right. But I don't agree. Um, so what does my medical report --
hank		It says you're completely cuckoo.
fred		Completely?
fred		Out of how many, would you say?
hank		I don't know. I understand brains have a lot of cells.
fred		They tell me it may never be over.
hank		Then never come back.   Can you drive?
fred		My...
hank		We can get somebody to drive you.
hank		I think you're a very good person.
fred		Thank you very much.
hank		You want a cigarette?
fred		No. I'm quitting them, too.   I'm quitting everything.
hank		Good for you. It's like I tell my children --
fred		I have kids, too.   Two little girls.
hank		I don't believe you do.   You're not supposed to.
fred		Maybe not.
hank		I don't think you're going to make it in the mountains, even if we get someone to drive you. Where else would you like to go?  110. CONTINUED:
fred		I don't know. I don't know.
hank		What about over to Donna Hawthorne's? I know you're close.
fred		How do you know that?
hank		By a process of elimination we were able to determine you're Bob Arctor.
fred		 Arctor?    I'm Bob Arctor?  But he's ugly!
hank		Nevermind. It's not important.  Where does she work?
fred		Uh, Thompson Jewelers.   I'm Arctor?
hank		 We should probably get you to a hospital. Barris poisoned you. It was really Barris, we were interested in. That's why we set up the scanners. He's into something heavy and sick, and it has to do with guns.
fred		 So, wait, you used me to get to Barris?
hank		We had to get to him, Bob. He's bad news. We couldn't tell you. We were afraid you'd spill the beans.
fred		 You fuckers. You fuckers.
donna hawthorne		Before we go to New-Path, Bob, I thought maybe we'd drive into the hills, y'know, look at the city lights.
donna hawthorne		Let's sit a few minutes.
bob arctor		 Do you have any hash?
donna hawthorne		C'mon, let's get off the road a little bit. In case of cops.
bob arctor		Just... like... the... rest... of us.
bob arctor		Did... he say what it was like?
donna hawthorne		Spars. Showers of colored sparks. In the air. Going up the wall. Wherever he looked. The whole world  113. CONTINUED:
bob arctor		What was on the other side?
donna hawthorne		He said it was always nighttime. Moonlight and water. Nothing ever changed. Water like blank ink and a beach. He was sure it was ancient Greece, that the door was a weak link in time. Later when he couldn't see it anymore, he became so frustrated with the noise and lights and motion in this world. He'd tell everyone he met that he lost everything.
bob arctor		I've lost everything.
donna hawthorne		There was a woman on the island. More like a statue. Of the Cyrenaican Aphrodite. In the moonlight. Pale and cold.
bob arctor		He should've gone through while he had the chance. You only get one chance.
donna hawthorne		He didn't have the chance, Bob. It was a promise. Something to come. Something better a long time in the future. They show us trailers now.  So we'll hold out.
bob arctor		That's what you're trying to do. With me now. Show me a trailer. So I'll hold out.
donna hawthorne		You're a good man. You've been dealt a bad blow. But life isn't over for you. I care for you a lot. I wish...
cop		Would you stand, you first, miss, and show me your identification, please?
donna hawthorne		Keep your voice down.
cop		I'm sorry.
donna hawthorne		Just fucking take off.
bob arctor		I can't make love. My thing's disappeared. I'm sorry. I'm so sorry.
donna hawthorne		C'mon, they're expecting us.   I have to sign you in.
bob arctor		But what'll I do if my thing's disappeared? Will they still take me?
donna hawthorne		 They'll take you.
donna hawthorne		It's a person.
donna hawthorne		It's easy to win. Anybody can win.
motorist		You want a ride, miss?
george		All right, Bruce, what you'll be doing here first is the bathrooms.
bob arctor		Okay.
george		You feel you know how to clean a bathroom?   Start, and I'll give you some pointers.
bob arctor		Okay.
mike		Thanks, man.  Mike fiddles with a belt with two metal rings for a buckle. He can't cinch it.  MIKE  Kiss my ass, kissy-facy! He wants to kiss people, kiss this, kissy-facy!
executive director		You pimp. You fuck. You dong. You shit. You turd. You snot. You asshole. You vomit. You wart.
mike		 Bruce?
bob arctor		I am an eye. I am dead. I can only look at what is front of me.
executive director		You turd prick. You weakling. You puke. You suck-off. You snatch.
mike		You like kids, Bruce?
bob arctor		Yes.
mike		You can eat with them if you like.
bob arctor		Okay.
little girl		What's your name?
bob arctor		Won't it wash off?
little girl		Oh, I see.  Well, you could write on the ceiling above your bed. Then when you want to know your name better, you can --
bob arctor		Thelma.
little girl		No, that's my name. And that's a girl's name anyway. If I see you again, I'll give you a name. I'll make one up for you. 'kay?
bob arctor		Don't you live here?
little girl		Yes, but my mommy may be leaving. She's thinking about taking us, me and my brother, and leaving. 'kay, Bye!
bob arctor		Bruce.
mike		Hey, Bruce!
bob arctor		Are you leaving here?
mike		 No, man, I can never leave   here. Too many temptations out there   for the likes of us. No, I'm just    going into town to pick up a donation   of semi- rotten vegetables.
bob arctor		Semi-rotten vegetables.
donna hawthorne		So are they paranoid about him?
mike		No. He just sits there all day. There's really nothing to suspect. They can't get anything out of him during the game sessions.
donna hawthorne		Well, then, will he be able to act, when the time comes? Is anything left?
mike		You never really know. A memory. A few charred brain cells flicker on. People like him are clacking insects. All reflex. We can only hope he's got the right reflex.
donna hawthorne		It was very well drilled into him.  Such a price to pay. The government asks an awful lot.
mike		Life asks an awful lot.
donna hawthorne		 I don't want to be on this assignment much longer. I just want it over. Shit. Sometimes I think we're colder than they are.
mike		I see a warm person when I look at you, Donna.
donna hawthorne		Oh, I'm warm on the outside. Warm face, warm eyes, warm fucking fake smile. But inside I'm cold all the time. I am full of lies. I am awful.
old woman		Can you do this?
bob arctor		I can't do that.
old woman		I can.
bob arctor		 Donna?!
bob arctor		How long has Donna been here?
bob arctor		 Oh, then it's not Donna. I've been here a week. And Donna drove me here. And she was fine: sad-eyed, quiet and composed. So beautiful. Leather jacket. That purse with the rabbit's foot dangling. Just like always.
mike		I think I'm going to try to get you a job on one of our farms, Bruce. When you're ready.
bob arctor		Can I work with animals. I like animals. Can I work with them?
mike		No, I want to try you with crops.    I think that'd be good for you.
bob arctor		I want to work with something living.
mike		The ground is living. Do you have any agricultural background?
bob arctor		 I used to work in an office.
mike		Well, you'll be outside from now on, sowing, tilling, killing insects. We do a lot of that with pesticides. But we're very careful, because those sprays can poison the crop as well as the person using them. Eat his head. The way yours has been eaten, Bruce.
bob arctor		Okay.
bob arctor		Is this Jerry Fabin?! Is this Jerry Fabin?!
farm manager		Your name is Bruce.
bob arctor		My name is Bruce.
farm manager		Mike Westaway recommended we give you a try on the farm. You're going to work here for a while.
bob arctor		Okay.
farm manager		I think you'll like it better here.
bob arctor		I think I'll like it better here.
farm manager		You like mountains?
bob arctor		I like mountains.
farm manager		Beautiful mountains all around.
bob arctor		I like air.
farm manager		Yeah, Bruce, we all like air. We really all do. C'mon, I'll show you your bunk and get you a hat to protect your head from the sun.
farm manager		This is where you sleep.
bob arctor		Will I be seeing my friends?
farm manager		You mean back at the rehab?
bob arctor		Mike and Thelma and Donna and Jerry Fabin and Luckman and Barris and --
farm manager		The farms are closed facilities, so they can't come visit. Besides you're not supposed to make any one-to-one relationships at New-Path. Didn't they teach you that?
bob arctor		They had us memorize that as part of the New-Path creed.
farm manager		But we usually send you back to your residence-of-origin for holidays. So you'll be visiting at Thanksgiving if you do good work.
bob arctor		Thanksgiving.
farm manager		All right then. What else?  Bathroom there. And you can turn on and off the light with this cord.
bob arctor		Mountains, Bruce, mountains.
farm manager		Echolalalia, Bruce, echolalalia.
bob arctor		Echolalalia, Bruce, echolalalia.
executive director		You're seeing the flower of the future, Bruce. But not for you.
bob arctor		Why not for me?
executive director		You've had too much of a good thing. So get up and stop worshipping. This isn't your god anymore.
bob arctor		Gone.     The flowers of spring are gone.
executive director		No. You simply can't see them. That's a philosophical problem you wouldn't comprehend. Epistemology -- the theory of knowledge.
bob arctor		I saw.
executive director		Back to work, Bruce.
bob arctor		A present for my friends.  My friends who I'll see soon.   At Thanksgiving.
****Dialogues from script :a_serious_man.txt****

man		What a marvel... what a marvel...
house interior		As its door opens and the man enters.
man		Dora!
voice		Yes...
man		You can't imagine what just happened. I was coming back on the Lublin road when the wheel came off the cart thank heavens it was the way back and I'd already sold the geese!
wife		How much?
man		Fifteen groshen, but that's not the story. I was struggling to set the cart upright when a droshky approaches from the direction of Lvov. How lucky, you think, that someone is out this late.
wife		Yes, very remarkable.
man		But that's the least of it! He stops to help me; we talk of this, we talk of that-it turns out this is someone you know! Traitle Groshkover!
wife		God has cursed us.
man		What?
wife		Traitle Groshkover has been dead for three years.
man		Why do you say such a thing! I saw the man! I talked to him!
wife		You talked to a dybbuk. Traitle Groshkover died of typhus in Pesel Bunim's house. Pesel told me-she sat shiva for him.
man		For some soup, to warm himself. The wind moans. He helped me, Dora!
the door		We are looking in from the outside as it unlatches and creaks in, opened by the husband in the foreground, who has arranged his face into a strained look of greeting. In the background the wife stares, hollow-eyed.
man		REB GROSHKOVER! You are welcome here! Reverse on REB GROSHKOVER: a short, merry-looking fellow with a bifurcated beard and a silk hat and spectacles. He gives a little squeal of delight.
reb groshkover		You are too kind, Velvel! Too kind!
man		Yes! A ray of sun, a ray of sun! Sit!
wife		My husband said he offered you soup.
reb groshkover		Yes, but I couldn't possibly eat this late, or I'd have nightmares. No, no: no soup for me!
wife		I knew it.
reb groshkover		I see! You think I'm fat enough already!
wife		No. A dybbuk doesn't eat.
reb groshkover		What a wife you have!
man		I assure you, REB GROSHKOVER, it's nothing personal; she heard a story you had died, three years ago, at Pesel Bunim's house. This is why she think you are a dybbuk; I, of course, do not believe in such things. I am a rational man.
reb groshkover		Oh my. Oh my yes. What nonsense. And even if there were spirits, certainly... He thumps his chest. I am not one of them!
wife		Pesel always worried. Your corpse was left unattended for many minutes when Pesel's father broke shiva and left the room-it must have been then that the Evil One- She breaks off to spit at the mention of the Evil One. -took you!
reb groshkover		"My corpse!" Honestly! What a wife you have!
wife		Oh yes? Look, husband...
reb groshkover		I shaved hastily this morning and missed a bit-by you this makes me a dybbuk?
man		Woman, what have you done?
reb groshkover		Why would she do such a thing?
wife		What do you say now about spirits? He is unharmed!
reb groshkover		On the contrary! I don't feel at all well.
man		Dora! Woe, woe! How can such a thing be!
reb groshkover		Perhaps I will have some soup. I am feeling weak...
man		Dear wife. We are ruined. Tomorrow they will discover the body. All is lost.
wife		Nonsense, Velvel... She walks to the door... Blessed is the Lord. Good riddance to evil and shuts it against the wind.
black		A drumbeat thumps in the black. Music blares: the Jefferson Airplane. Grace Slick's voice enters: When the truth is found to be lies And all the hope inside you dies Don't you want somebody to love. . .
teacher		Mee yodayah? Reuven? Rifkah? Mah zeh "anakim"? Efsheh mashooach ba-avodah?
doctor		Uh-huh.
hebrew school		Close on Hebrew characters being scribbled onto the blackboard as the TEACHER talks. The TEACHER, talking. A bored child, staring off. His point-of-view: a blacktopped parking lot with a few orange school busses, beyond it a marshy field, and distant suburban bungalows. Close on another child staring at something through drooping eyelids. His point-of-view: very close on the face of a classroom clock. We hear its electrical hum. Its red sweep-second hand crawls around the dial very, very slowly. DANNY Gopnik hisses:
danny		Fagle!.. . The TEACHER drones on, writing on the blackboard. DANNY's eyes flit from the TEACHER to the student sitting kitty-corner in front of him-a husky youth with shaggy hair. He hasn't heard the prompt. . Fagle! The TEACHER turns from the blackboard and DANNY leans back, eyes front, folding the twenty up small behind his book.
teacher		Ahnee rotzeh lalechet habait hakisai. Mee yodayah? Misaviv tamid anachnoo tamid... The clock-watching child, eyelids sinking, is beginning to drool out of one side of his mouth.
doctor		Mm-hmm.
hebrew school		A bored child is excavating a bugger from his nose. The TEACHER turns back to the chalkboard to circle something.
danny		Fagle!
teacher		Hamrah oomoh- He interrupts himself briefly to make a couple of phlegm-hawking sounds. He resumes: . Hamrah oomoh meshiach oomshel zal?
doctor's office		The DOCTOR palpates LARRY's midriff, digging his fingers into the hairy, baggy flesh. DOCTOR's Voice Uh-huh. We'll do some routine X-rays.
hebrew school		A young girl holds a hank of her bangs in front of her face, separating out individual hairs to examine them for split ends.
teacher		Ahnoo ahnoo mah? Mah? Talmidim? D'vorah?
teacher		Mee yodayah? The bugger-seeker, having succesfully withdrawn a bugger, carefully drapes it over the sharp end of his pencil, to what end we cannot know. DANNY, apprehensively eyeing the TEACHER, slides the twenty into the transistor radio's cover-sleeve.
hebrew school		The clock-watching student's head is making descending bobs toward his chest.
teacher		Nefsheh shelach hamilamid-eh?! The TEACHER's circuit of the classroom has taken him around behind DANNY. DANNY's book lies face-down on the desk, covering the radio, but the white cord snakes out from under it up to his ear. The TEACHER yanks at the cord.
students		Shechet! Shechet bivakasha! The nodding student's head droops ever lower. Other students join in the chant:  SHECHET! SHECHET! SHECHET BIVAKASHA!
doctor's office		LARRY, now fully clothed, is seated across from the DOCTOR. The DOCTOR is looking at his file. He absently taps a cigarette out of a pack and lights up. He nods as he smokes, looking at the file.
doctor		Well, I-sorry. He holds the pack toward LARRY.
larry		No thanks.
doctor		Well, you're in good health. How're Judith and the kids?
larry		Good. Everyone's good. You know. The DOCTOR takes a long suck.
doctor		Good. Daniel must be-what? About to be bar mitzvah?
larry		Two weeks.
doctor		Well, mazel tov. They grow up fast, don't they?
principal		Hmm... eh... nu?
danny		You put the- The old man holds up one hand.
principal		In ivrit. 
danny		Um... The old man looks down at the little earpiece pinched between two fingers. He examines it as a superstitious native might a Coca-Cola bottle. The source of the electrical hum: a wall clock whose red sweep-second hand crawls around the dial very, very slowly. The Reb continues to squint at the earpiece. DANNY sighs. He encourages:
danny		Yeah, you- The principal's tone is harder:
principal		In ivrit! This time his cold look holds until he is sure that the admonishment has registered. He looks back down at the earpiece. We hear the door open. The principal ignores it. An old woman walks slowly in with a teacup chattering on a saucer. She has thick eyeglasses. She wears thick flesh-colored support hose. She takes slow, short steps toward the desk. The principal is studying the radio.
principal		Mneh... The old woman continues to take slow short steps toward him. The tableau looks like a performance-art piece. She reaches the desk and sets the teacup down. She summons a couple of phlegm- hawking rasps and turns to go. She takes slow short steps toward the door. The principal raises the earpiece experimentally toward his ear. Close on his hairy, wrinkled ear as his trembling fingers bring in the earpiece. The i f ngers push and wobble and tamp the earpiece into place, hesitate, and then do some more pushing and wobbling and tamping. The principal keeps DANNY fixed with a stare as his hand hesitantly drops from his ear, ready to reach back up should the earpiece loosen. .mneh... Satisfied that neither the student nor the earpiece are about to make any sudden moves, he looks down at the radio. He turns a dial. Faintly and tinnily from the earpiece we hear the compressed jangle of rock music. The rabbi stares blankly, listening. DANNY slumps, looking warily at the rabbi. The rabbi continues to stare down at the radio. The compressed rock music jangles on. The rabbi is expressionless, mouth slightly open, listening. Tableau: anxious student, earplugged spiritual leader. Muffled, from the outer office, the hawking of phlegm.
classroom		We are behind a man who writes equations on a chalkboard, shoulder at work and hand quickly waggling. Periodically he glances back, giving us a fleeting look at his face: it is
larry		You following this?... Okay?.. So... Heh-heh... This part is exciting... Students follow along, bored. LARRY continues to write. . So, okay. So. So if that's that, then we can do this, right? Is that right? Isn't that right? And that's Schrodinger's paradox, right? Is the cat dead or is the cat not dead? Okay?
blegen hall		LARRY is entering the physics department office. The department's secretary wheels her castored chair away from her typing.
secretary		Messages, Professor Gopnik. He takes the three phone messages.
larry		Thank you, Natalie. Oh-CLIVE. Come in. A Korean graduate student who was been waiting on a straightbacked chair rises.
larry's office		He is flipping through the messages. Absently:
larry		So, uh, what can I do for you? The messages: WHILE YOU WERE OUT Dick Dutton OF Columbia Record Club
clive		Uh, Dr. Gopnik, I believe the results of Physics Mid-Term were unjust.
larry		Uh-huh, how so?
clive		I received an unsatisfactory grade. In fact: F, the failing grade.
larry		Uh, yes. You failed the mid-term. That's accurate.
clive		Yes, but this is not just. I was unaware to be examined on the mathematics.
larry		Well-you can't do physics without mathematics, really, can you.
clive		If I receive failing grade I lose my scholarship, and feel shame. I understand the physics. I understand the dead cat.
clive		Very difficult... very difficult...
larry		Well, I... I'm sorry, but I... what do you propose?
clive		Passing grade.
larry		No no, I-
clive		Or perhaps I can take the mid-term again. Now I know it covers mathematics.
larry		Well, the other students wouldn't like that, would they. If one student gets to retake the test til he gets a grade he likes. CLIVE impassively considers this.
clive		Secret test. LARRY wraps a hand wearily over his eyes.
larry		. No, I'm afraid-
clive		Hush-hush.
larry		No, that's just not workable. I'm afraid we'll just have to bite the bullet on this thing, CLIVE, and-
clive		Very troubling. He rises. . very troubling... He goes to the door, shaking his head, as LARRY looks on in surprise. He leaves. LARRY stares at the open door. The secretary outside, her back to us, types on. LARRY. looks stupidly around his own office, shakes his head. He picks up the phone message from Sy Ableman-"Let's talk"-and dials. As he dials his other hand wanders over the papers on the desktop. There is a plain white envelope on the desk. LARRY picks it up as the phone rings through. A ring is clipped short and a warm basso-baritone rumbles through the line: Phone Voice Sy Ableman.
larry		Hello, Sy, LARRY Gopnik.
larry		Good, how've you been, Sy?
sy		Oh fine. Shall we talk LARRY. LARRY reacts to the money.
larry		 What?! Oh! Sorry! I, uh-call back! He slams down the phone.
secretary		Sy Ableman just called. Said he got disconnected.
bathroom door		A hand enters to knock. Man's Voice Out in a minute! SARAH, the sixteen-year-old girl who has just knocked, rolls her eyes.
sarah		I gotta wash my hair! I'm going out tonight!
voice		Out in a minute!
sarah		Jesus Christ! She stomps down the hall.
kitchen		Judith, a woman of early middle age, is at the stove. SARAH enters.
sarah		W is Uncle Arthur always in the bathroom?
judith		He has to drain his sebacious cyst. You know that. Will you set the table?
sarah		Why can't he do it in the basement? Or go out in the garage!
bus		We are raking the exterior of an orange school bus as it rattles along. Hebrew characters on the side identify it-to some, anyway.
inside		We are locked down on DANNY as the bus rattles like an old crate, squeaking, grinding gears, belching exhaust. DANNY and the children around him vibrate and pitch about but, from their lack of reaction, seem used to it. They raise their voices to be heard over the engine noise and the various stress noises in the chassis and a transistor radio somewhere that plays Jefferson Airplane.
danny		I had twenty bucks in it too. Inside the case.
danny		I bought a lid from Mike Fagle. Couple weeks ago. I still owed him twenty. Mark Sallerson He already gave you the pot?
danny		Yeah but a couple weeks ago my funding got cut off. Fagle said he'd pound the crap out of me if I didn't pay up. Howard Altar What funding got cut off? Where do you get your money? Another boy, with thick glasses, is Ronnie Nudell. Ronnie Nudell What happened? Mark Sallerson Rabbi Turchik took his radio. Had money in it. Ronnie Nudell That fucker!
danny		Yeah. I think he said he was confiscating it. Ronnie Nudell He's a fucker! Where do you get your money? Mark Sallerson Mike Fagle's gonna kick his ass. Last week he pounded the crap out of Seth Seddlemeyer.
bathroom door		A hand enters to knock. Uncle Arthur's Voice Out in a minute!
sarah		Are you still in there?! Uncle Arthur I, uh.. . Just a minute!
sarah		I've gotta wash my hair! I'm going out tonight, to the hole! Uncle Arthur Okay!
outside		LARRY pulls into the driveway and gets out of the car. The purr of a lawn mower. He looks. His point-of-view: Gar Brandt, the next-door neighbor, is mowing his lawn. He has a buzz cut and is wearing a white T-shirt. Another noise competes with the lawn mower: rattling, squeaking, gear-grinding. The orange school bus with Hebrew lettering pulls up across the street. Its door opens with a pneumatic hiss to discharge a passenger.
dinner table		LARRY sits in. His wife and two children are already seated. There is one empty place. LARRY projects:
larry		Arthur! A muffled voice:
arthur		Yeah!
larry		Dinner!
arthur		Okay! Out in a minute!
larry		We should wait.
sarah		Are you kidding! They start eating.
larry		Mr. Brandt keeps mowing part of our lawn.
judy		Does that matter?
larry		What?
judy		Is it important? LARRY shrugs.
larry		It's just odd.
judy		Any news on your tenure?
larry		I think they'll give me tenure.
judy		You think.
judy		No, I don't know. Which is why I ask.
sarah		Mom, how long is Uncle Arthur staying with us?
judy		Ask your father.
back yard		Twilight. LARRY is stepping onto a hose as he unwheels it from the drum of a traveling sprinkler, laying out an are to cover the back yard. Intermittent thwacks from next door: Gar Brandt and his son, who also has a buzz cut and a white T-shirt, throw a baseball back and forth. Gar Brandt throws hard. The ball pops in the boy's mitt.
mitch		Ow. LARRY walks over to the boundary defined by the fresh mowing. He sights down it. Gar Brandt looks over his shoulder at LARRY, looking. Gar Brandt is expressionless. He
mitch		Ow.
inside		Evening. Lights on. LARRY sits at the kitchen table, a briefcase open on the chair next to him. Blue books-examination booklets-are spread on the table in front of him. He reads, occasionally making marginal scribbles, grading. From off, faint and dulled by intervening walls, rock music: somewhere in the house DANNY is listening to the Jefferson Airplane. The clink of teaspoon against china as LARRY stirs his tea. He looks up at a noise: JUDY enters.
judy		Honey.
judy		Did you talk to Sy? Still absent, without looking up:
larry		Sy?-Sy Ableman!-That's right, he called, but I-
judy		You didn't talk to him.
larry		No, I-
judy		You know the problems you and I have been having. Sympathetic, but still absent:
larry		Mm.
judy		Well, Sy and I have become very close. This brings LARRY's head up. He focuses on JUDY, puzzled. She elaborates: In.short: I think it's time to start talking about a divorce. LARRY stares at her. A long beat. At length, trying to digest:
larry		. Sy Ableman!
judy		This is not about Sy.
larry		You mentioned Sy!
judy		Don't twist my words. We-
larry		A divorce-what have I done! I haven't done anything- What have I done!
judy		LARRY, don't be a child. You haven't "done" anything. I haven't "done" anything.
larry		Yes! Yes! We haven't done anything! And I-I'm probably about to get tenure!
judy		Nevertheless, there have been problems. As you know.
judy		And things have changed. And then-Sy Ableman. Sy has come into my life. And now-
larry		Come into your-what does that mean?! You, you, you, you barely know him!
judy		We've known the Ablemans for fifteen years.
larry		Yes, but you you said we hadn't done anything! JUDY suddenly is stony:
judy		I haven't done anything. This is not some flashy fling. This is not about woopsy-doopsy. LARRY stares at her.
larry		Sy Ableman! From down the hall, a knock on a door. A muffled voice:
arthur		Out in a minute!
judy		Look, I didn't know any other way of breaking it to you. Except to tell you. And treat you like an adult. Is that so wrong? LARRY does not seem to be listening. His eyes roam the room as he thinks.
larry		Where do I sleep? JUDY narrows her eyes.
judy		What?
larry		Arthur's on the couch!
judy		Look. Sy feels that we should-
larry		Esther is barely cold!
judy		Esther died three years ago. And it was a loveless marriage. Sy wants a Gett. This derails the conversation. LARRY stares, trying to pick up the thread.
larry		. A what?
judy		A ritual divorce. He says it's very important. Without a Gett I'm an Aguna.
larry		A what? What are you talking about? She turns to go, shaking her head, peeved:
judy		You always act so surprised. As she leaves: I have begged you to see the Rabbi.
fade in		LARRY has fallen asleep at the kitchen table, face-down in a pile of blue books. Cold blue light sweeps across him and he looks up.
blegen hall		LARRY enters the departmental office. His eyes are red-rimmed and dark-bagged. He has beard stubble. The department's secretary wheels her castored chair away from her typing.
secretary		Messages, Professor Gopnik. He takes the two phone messages.
his office		LARRY looks at the messages: WHILE YOU WERE OUT Dick Dutton OF Columbia Record Club
larry		Yes-thanks for coming, CLIVE. CLIVE Park enters the office.
clive		I didn't leave it.
larry		Well--you don't even know what I was going to say.
clive		I didn't leave anything. I'm not missing anything. I know where everything is. LARRY looks at him, trying to formulate a thought.
larry		Well... then, CLIVE, where did this come from? He waves the envelope. . This is here, isn't it? CLIVE looks at it gravely.
clive		Yes, sir. That is there.
larry		This is not nothing, this is something.
clive		Yes sir. That is something. A beat. . What is it.
larry		You know what it is! You know what it is! I believe. And
clive		Of course, sir.
larry		I'll have to pass it on to Professor Finkle, along with my suspicions about where it came from. Actions have consequences.
clive		Yes. Often.
larry		Always! Actions always have consequences! He pounds the desk for emphasis. In this office, actions have consequences!
clive		Yes sir.
larry		Not just physics. Morally.
clive		Yes.
larry		And we both know about your actions.
clive		No sir. I know about my actions.
larry		I can interpret, CLIVE. I know what you meant me to understand.
clive		Meer sir my sir. LARRY cocks his head.
larry		. Meer sir my sir?
clive		 Mere... surmise. Sir. He gravely shakes his head. . Very uncertain.
sarah		You little brat fucker! You snuck twenty bucks out of my drawer!
danny		Studying torah! Asshole!
sarah		You little brat! I'm telling Dad!
danny		Oh yeah? You gonna tell him you've been sneaking it out of his wallet?
sarah		All right, you know what I'm gonna do? You little brat? If you don't give it back? We hear the thunk of the front door opening. DANNY stands, calling:
danny		Dad?
foyer		LARRY is entering with his briefcase. As he stows it in the foyer closet DANNY's voice continues, off:
danny		Dad, you gotta fix the aerial. Judith emerges from the kitchen.
judith		Hello LARRY, have you thought about a lawyer?
larry		Honey, please! DANNY emerges from the hall.
larry		 Can we discuss it later?
danny		I can't get F Troop.
judith		LARRY, the children know. Do you think this is some secret? Do you think this is something we're going to keep quiet? SARAH enters.
sarah		Dad, Uncle Arthur is in the bathroom again! And I=m going to the hole at eight! She hits DANNY on the back of the head.
danny		Stop it!
larry		SARAH! What's going on!
danny		She keeps doing that!
later		LARRY sits in a reclining chair in the living room, head back, listening to Sidor Belarsky on the hi-fi. On top of the music is a hissing-sucking sound. There is also the sound of a pencil busily scratching paper. We cut to its source: Uncle Arthur sits scribbling into a spiral notebook, his free hand holding the end of a length of surgical tubing against the back of his neck. The tube leads to a water-pik-like appliance on an end table next to him-the source of the sucking sound. After a long beat of listening to the music, LARRY speaks into space:
larry		Arthur? Uncle Arthur does not look up from his scribbling. Uncle Arthur Yes. LARRY continues to stare at the ceiling.
larry		What're you doing? Still without looking up: Uncle Arthur Working on the Mentaculus. Long beat. Music. Scribbling.
larry		Any luck, um, looking for an apartment? More scribbling. Uncle Arthur No. The doorbell chimes.
front door		LARRY enters, glances through the front door's head-height window, and-freezes, one hand arrested on the way to the doorknob. His point-of-view: framed by the window, yellowly lit by the stoop light, a human head. A middle-aged man, a few years older than LARRY. A fleshy face with droopy hangdog features, a five-o'clock shadow, and sad Harold Bloom eyes. LARRY opens the door.
larry		Sy. Sy, entering, thrusts out a hand. His voice vibrates with a warm, sad empathy:
sy		Good to see you, LARRY. He is a heavy-set man wearing a short-sleeved shirt that his belly tents out in front of him. In his left hand he holds a bottle of wine.
sy		No, actually LARRY, I'm here to see you, if I might. He shakes his head. . Such a thing. Such a thing.
larry		Shall we go in the... He is leading him into the kitchen but Sy, oblivious to surroundings, plows on with the conversation, arresting both men in the narrow space between kitchen sink and stove, and invading LARRY's space.
sy		You know, LARRY-how we handle ourselves, in this situation-it's so impawtant.
larry		Uh-huh.
sy		Absolutely. Judith told me that she broke the news to you. She said you were very adult.
larry		Did she.
sy		Absolutely. The respect she has for you.
larry		Yes?
sy		Absolutely. But the children, LARRY. The children. He shakes his head. . The most impawtant.
larry		Well, I guess...
sy		Of coss. And Judith says they're handling it so well. A tribute to you. Do you drink wine? Because this is an incredible bottle. This is not Mogen David. This is a wine, LARRY. A bawdeaux.
larry		You know, Sy-
sy		Open it-let it breathe. Ten minutes. Letting it breathe, so impawtant.
larry		Thanks, Sy, but I'm not-
sy		I insist! No reason for discumfit. I'll be uncumftable if you don't take it. These are signs and tokens, LARRY.
larry		I'm just-I'm not ungrateful, I'm, I just don't know a lot about wine and, given our respective, you know- He is startled when Sy abruptly hugs him.
hallway		The bathroom door cracks open in the foreground. DANNY peeks out. His point-of-view: the empty hallway ending in a T with another hallway. A janitor crosses, pushing a broom down the far hallway. He disappears. His echoing footsteps recede. DANNY and Ronny emerge from the bathroom.
rabbi minda		The photo-portrait on the wall of Mar Turchik's office lit by late-day sun. We hear a scraping sound.
sanctuary		We are behind the two boys who sit side by side on the last pew, staring at the front of the empty sanctuary. Its stained glass windows further weaken the late-afternoon light. In deference to the location, the boys wear yarmulkas. A long hold on their still backs. At length, some movement in DANNY's back, his head dips, and we hear him sucking on the joint. He holds it, exhales, and passes it wordlessly to Ronnie Nudell.
suburban street		We are pulling DANNY as he walks along the street, eyes red-rimmed, still wearing his yarmulka. It is dusk. After a few beats of walking, the front door of a house just behind DANNY opens. A husky, shaggy-haired youth emerges on the run. The sound has alerted DANNY. Seeing Mike Fagle, he too begins to run. He reaches up and grabs his yarmulka and clutches it in one of his pumping fists. Pursued and pursuer both run wordlessly, panting, feet pounding. Mike Fagle is closing. But DANNY is already cutting across the Brandt's front yard, approaching his own. He plunges into the house and slams the door. Mike Fagle draws up, panting, gazing hungrily at the house.
mitch		Ow. Foreshortened Gar Brandt and Mitch are playing catch in their back yard. With each toss the ball pops, alternately in father's mitt and son's. Precariously balanced, LARRY reaches out for the aerial. He tentatively touches it. He grasps it. He twists the aerial.
mitch		Ow. Faintly, under the wineglass sound, and clouded by static, a high, ringing tenor sings in an unfamiliar modality. Cantorial music. LARRY drops his hand. Inertia keeps the aerial rotating slowly til it dies, the sound drifting away into the sybillant shushing of trees. LARRY reaches out again to turn the aerial. The same crystal hum... cantorial singing... and now, layering in, the theme from F Troop. Music. Crystal hum. Wind.
mitch		Ow. LARRY's look travels: his point-of-view pans slowly off the steep angle of father and son playing catch, travels across his own backyard, and brings in the white fence that encloses the patio of the neighbor on the other side. Gar  Ow. LARRY reacts to the naked woman: startled at first, he moves to hide behind the peak of the roof. But as he realizes that the sun keeps the woman's eyes closed he relaxes, continu- ing to stare. She is attractive. Not young, not old: LARRY's age. Peaceful. After a still beat one of her hands gropes blindly to the side. It finds an ashtray on the table next to her and takes from it a pluming cigarette. The woman takes a puff and replaces it.
notebook		A pencil scratches equations into a lamplit spiral notebook. Sidor Belarsky comes in at the cut. So does the spluttering suck-sound of Uncle Arthur's evacuator. Wider on Uncle Arthur, in his pyjamas, propped up on the narrow fold-out sofa, writing with one hand as he holds the evacuator hose to his neck with the other. Squeezed into the living room next to the fold-out sofa is a camp cot of plaid-patterned nylon stretched over an aluminum frame. On the camp cot is LARRY, lying half-in, half- out of a rumpled sleeping bag. He stares at the ceiling, a damp washcloth pressed against his forehead. His face is flaming red. Arthur speaks absently as he scribbles:
arthur		Will you read this? Tell me what you think? LARRY continues to stare at the ceiling.
larry		Okay. Uncle Arthur glances up from the notebook, focuses on LARRY.
arthur		Boy. You should've worn a hat.
kitchen		LARRY, in his underwear, spoons ground coffee into the percolator. Uncle Arthur snores softly on in the other room. From outside, a dull thunk. LARRY pulls back a curtain. Next door, Gar Brandt is going down the walk, wearing camouflage togs and camo billed cap, a rifle bag slung over his shoulder. He is carrying an ice chest, its contents clicking and sloshing. The boy Mitch, also wearing camo clothes and cap and also with a rifle bag, has just closed the front door. He now lets the screen door swing shut behind him and follows his father down the walk to the car in the driveway. The twitter of early morning birds. Gar's voice, though not projected, stands out in the pre-dawn quiet:
gar		Let's see some hustle, Mitch.
larry		Hi Arlen. Arlen Finkle LARRY, I feel that, as head of the tenure committee I should tell you this, though it should be no cause for concern. You should not be at all worried. LARRY waits for more. Arlen seems to need a prompt.
larry		Okay. Arlen Finkle I feel I should mention it even though we won't give this any weight at all in considering whether to grant you tenure, so, I repeat no cause for concern.
larry		Okay, Arlen. Give what any weight? Arlen Finkle We have received some letters, uh... denigrating you, and, well, urging that we not grant you tenure.
larry		From who? Arlen Finkle They're anonymous. And so of course we dismiss them completely.
larry		Well... well... what do they say? Arlen Finkle They make allegations, not even allegations, assertions, but
larry		But... I think you're saying, these won't play any part in your deliberations. Arlen Finkle None at all.
larry		Um, so what are they... Arlen Finkle Moral turpitude. You could say.
larry		Uh-huh. Can I ask, are they, are they-idiomatic? Arlen Finkle I, uh...
larry		The reason I ask, I have a Korean student, South Korean, disgruntled South Korean, and I meant to talk to you about this, actually, he- Arlen Finkle No. No, the letters are competently-even eloquently written. A native English-speaker. No question about that.
larry		Uh-huh. Arlen Finkle But I reiterate this, LARRY: no cause for concern. I only speak because I would have felt odd concealing it.
larry		Yes, okay, thank you Arlen.
minutes later		Inside the bus, now moving. Engine noise bangs in louder and air roars in through open windows. We are on the driver, a sallow man in a short-sleeved white shirt with earlocks and a yarmulke. He pitches about, stoically wrestling with the wheel and gear shift as the vehicle bucks. The pitching children. Somewhere, Jefferson Airplane plays.
danny		I gotta get my radio back. Ronnie Nudell Maybe the fucker lodged it up his fucking asshole.
danny		I gotta get it back. Or Mike Fagle's gonna pound the crap out of me. Ronnie Nudell
danny		And I'll still have to get my sister the money back or she's gonna break four of my records. Twenty bucks, four records. Howard Altar How do you buy all those records. Where do you get your funds.
gar		Go scrub up, Mitch.
larry		Uh, good afternoon. This brings Gar's look around. Apparently he is unused to talking with his neighbor. There is a short beat before his response.
gar		Afternoon. In the background of his angle is the dead buck, staring off through sightless eyes.
gar		Yep.
larry		Is that a, uh... He is indicating the staked area. Gar looks around at it, looks back at LARRY.
gar		Gonna be a den.
larry		Uh-huh, that's great. Uh, Mr. Brandt- Gar barks at Mitch, who has lingered to listen to the grown-ups:
gar		I said scrub up, Mitch! The child quickly goes. LARRY frowns.
larry		Isn't this a school day?
gar		Took him out of school today. So he could hunt with his dad.
larry		Oh! He nods. . That's.. . nice. Gar stares at him with button eyes. Small talk is not his thing. LARRY clears his throat.
gar		Property line's the poplar.
larry		. the. ?
gar		Poplar!
larry		. Well.. . even if it is, you're just about over it
gar		Measure. We hear two pairs of pounding footsteps coming up the street.
larry		I don't have to measure, you can tell it's...
gar		Line's the poplar. He indicates. . It's all angles. Gar Brandt turns and goes. LARRY turns, reacting to the pounding footsteps. One of the two pairs belongs to DANNY who arrives, slowing to a walk, panting, a bookbag over his shoulder. A half-block back the pursuing boy also stops running. Husky, shaggy-haired, he watches, scowling, as DANNY goes up the walk to his house. LARRY addresses DANNY's retreating back:
larry		What's going on?
danny		Nothing.
sarah		I'm going to the hole.
larry		At five o'clock? He looks out the front-door window. Four girls of SARAH's age are coming up the walk
sarah		We're stopping at Laurie Kipperstein's house so I can wash my hair. LARRY pulls open the door just as the doorbell rings. From the four dark girls:
voices		Hi, Mr. Gopnik.
larry		You can't wash it here? From somewhere in the house, Jefferson Airplane starts. As she brushes past LARRY:
sarah		Uncle Arthur's in the bathroom.
voice		Out in a minute! Judith enters.
judith		Are you ready?
larry		Huh?
judith		We're meeting Sy at Embers.
larry		I am?
judith		Both of us. I told you.
sy		LARRY. How are you.
larry		Sy.
sy		Hello Judith.
judith		Hello Sy. Once Sy releases LARRY, all seat themselves at Sy's booth, Judith next to Sy, LARRY facing.
sy		Thank you for coming, LARRY. It's so impawtant that we be able to discuss these things.
larry		I'm happy to come to Embers, Sy, but, I'm thinking, really, maybe it's best to leave these discussions to the lawyers.
sy		Of coss! Legal matters, let the lawyers discuss! Don't mix apples and oranges!
judith		I've beamed you to see the lawyer.
larry		 I told you, I'm going Monday.
sy		Monday is timely! This isn't-please!-Embers isn't the forum for legalities, you are so right!
judith		Hmph.
sy		No, Judith and I thought merely we should discuss the practicalities, the living arrangements, a situation that will conduce to the comfit of all the parties. This is an issue where no one is at odds. LARRY isn't sure where this is leading:
larry		. Living arrangements.
sy		Absolutely. I think we all agree, the children not being contaminated by the tension-the most impawtant.
judith		We shouldn't put the kids in the middle of this, LARRY.
larry		The kids aren't-
judith		I'm saying "we." I'm not pointing fingers.
sy		No one is playing the "blame game," LARRY.
larry		I didn't say anyone was!
judith		Well let's not play He said, She said, either.
larry		I wasn't! I. ---
sy		Aw right, well let's just step back, and defuse the situation,
judith		Really, to keep things on an even keel, especially now, leading up to DANNY's bar mitzvah-
sy		A child's bar mitzvah, LARRY!
judith		Sy and I think it's best if you move out of the house.
larry		. Move out?!
sy		It makes eminent sense.
judith		Things can't continue as they-
larry		Move out! Where would I go?!
sy		Well, for instance, the Jolly Roger is quite livable. Not expensive, and the rooms are eminently livable.
judith		This would allow you to visit the kids.
sy		There's convenience in its fava. There's a pool-
sy		LARRY, you're jesting!
judith		LARRY, there is much to accomplish before that can happen. Sy is sadly shaking his head.
sy		LARRY, LARRY, LARRY. I think, really, the Jolly Roger is the appropriate coss of action. He shrugs. It has a pool.
danny		Stop it!
sarah		Creep fucker!
danny		Stop it! I'm getting it! I'm gonna get it! Wider shows that the brain is on television, which DANNY has muted while he plays the Cantor Youssele Rosenblatt record and drills his torah portion. He and SARAH are in a stand-off, hands tensed to either deliver or ward off blows.
sarah		Brat! LARRY enters.
larry		What's going on?
larry		What was that?
danny		Nothing.
larry		How's the haftorah coming? Can you maybe use the hi-fi?
danny		What? We hear the doorbell off. LARRY indicates the portable record player.
danny		Sure Dad. On TV, the handsome man shouts defiance at the brain. From off, SARAH projects:
sarah		Dad. Chinese guy.
asian man		A middle-aged Korean man, well groomed. He wears a nicely cut suit and a jeweled tie- pin.
man		Culcha clash. He bangs his two knuckles together, illustrating. . Culcha clash. He faces LARRY in the driveway. LARRY's car is half-loaded with open boxes that are haphazardly stuffed with clothing and effects. LARRY is leaning against the hood, arms folded, gazing at the man, unimpressed. A long beat. Finally he bestirs himself.
larry		With all respect, Mr. Park, I don't think it's that. Mr. Park Yes.
larry		No. It would be a culture clash if it were the custom in your land to bribe people for grades. Mr. Park Yes.
larry		So-you're saying it is the custom? Mr. Park No. This is defamation. Grounds for lawsuit.
larry		You-let me get this straight-you're threatening to sue me for defaming your son? Mr. Park Yes.
larry		But it would- Gar Brandt Is this man bothering you. Gar Brandt stands on the strip of lawn separating the two neighbors. He is giving Mr. Park a hard stare.
larry		Is he bothering me? No. We're fine. Thank you, Mr. Brandt. Gar Brandt, not entirely convinced, withdraws, glaring at the Korean. LARRY turns back to Mr. Park. . I, uh. . See, if it were defamation there would have to be someone I was defaming him to, or I... All right, I... let's keep it simple. I could pretend the money never appeared. That's not defaming anyone.
bl		Mr. Park Yes. And passing grade.
larry		Passing grade. Mr. Park Yes.
larry		Or you'll sue me. Mr. Park For taking money.
larry		So.. . he did leave the money. Mr. Park This is defamation. LARRY stares at him.
larry		Look. It doesn't make sense. Either he left the money or he didn't Mr. Park Please. Accept mystery.
larry		You can't have it both ways! If Mr. Park Why not. LARRY stares. We hear Sidor Belarsky music.
larry		Hello... He brightens. . Fine, Mimi, how are you?... Uh-huh... No, it's not that bad... It's not that bad... There's a pool... Arthur emerges from an alcove in the dim depth of the room that has a dressing-room mirror and apparently connects to the bathroom. He has a hand towel pressed to the back of his neck. . Oh sure, that sounds great. . . Oh, great, then I'll bring
lake nokomis		The beach: families are crowded onto the small beach of a freshwater lake, children cavorting, adults lounging, much sun, few umbrellas. Red floats connected by red nylon rope define a swimming area; beyond it people dive from an anchored raft. Splashing and children's laughter slap off the surface of the lake.
woods		Above the lake. The beach noise has some distance. It also has a faintly bizarre canyon echo. There is a present, sybillant shushing of breeze in the trees. It is dark here with intense hot spots where sun sifts through the leaf cover. We are close on DANNY, who sits very still, leaning back against a tree trunk.
voice		Gimme that fucker. DANNY passes the joint to Ronnie Nudell, who sits opposite.
picnic area		On a woodless rise above the lake. Each of the separate picnic areas consist of a redwood table and benches placed next to a firepit. Here in the sun both LARRY and Mel Nudell, a man slightly older than LARRY, glisten with sweat. Mel, in the background, bounces a bag of charcoal briquettes to spill some into the firepit. LARRY sits at the table in the foreground with Mimi Nudell who alone seems unaffected by the heat-or by anything else in the physical environment. Her pale, gravely composed Giacometti face is shaded by a large-brimmed hat.
larry		No. Almost a year and a half since Touche Ross let him go. He's very good with numbers. I think his, his social skills have held him back.
mimi		Such a sweet man though.
larry		Arthur has a good heart. And he never complains, unlike me. Sometimes I don't give him enough credit.
mimi		He tried to tell me about this thing he's working on, this, um...
larry		The Mentaculus? He says it's a, uh. a probability map. Of the universe. He asked if I could help him publish it. Um, it was a little hard for me to evaluate.
mimi		Does he go out socially at all?
larry		He tries. He's been going to the singles mixers at Hillel House.-Well, I should talk, I'm not doing any better.
mimi		How is Judith?
larry		Fine. She's fine. I'm the odd man out. Mimi smiles.
mimi		Sometimes these things just aren't meant to be. And it can take a while before you feel what was always there, for better or worse.
larry		I never felt it! It was a bolt from the blue! What does that mean! Everything that I thought was one way turns out to be another!
mimi		Then-it's an opportunity to learn how things really are. LARRY broods. Mimi softens. . I'm sorry-I don't mean to sound glib. It's not always easy, deciphering what God is trying to tell you.
larry		I'll say.
mimi		But it's not something you have to figure out all by your- self. We're Jews, we have that well of tradition to draw on, to help us understand. When we're puzzled we have all the
larry		I guess.
mimi		Have you talked to Rabbi Nachtner? Silence. Arthur is climbing the hill from the lake, dripping wet. He projects:
arthur		Boy! The air out here is magnificent! Mimi, looking at LARRY, responds to his dark silence:
mimi		Why not see him? Mel Nudell has finished spreading and lighting the coals. He now comes and sits next to Mimi, draping an arm over her shoulder. She strokes his hand, still looking at LARRY.
larry		What's the rabbi gonna tell me?
mimi		If I knew I'd be the rabbi. He looks at her glumly. She laughs. . Life is beautiful, LARRY. Nobody's sick. Nobody died. You just need help remembering how to enjoy it. She rests her head against Mel's shoulder. . Where are the kids?
mel		Woods. Exploring. Uncle Arthur approaches, swim trunks plastered to his thighs, hair dripping, one hand
arthur		If somebody could bottle this air they'd make a million bucks! A white title comes up: The First Rabbi
larry		Oh-Rabbi Scott. Rabbi Scott Ginzler is the junior rabbi, a man in his twenties. Rabbi Scott Hello LARRY.
larry		I thought I was going to see Rabbi Nachtner. Rabbi Scott He was called away on an etz monim: Ruth Brynn's mother is in the hospital and she isn't doing well. Rabbi Nachtner asked me to cover for him-come on in.
larry		And she wants a Gett. A long silence. The hum of ventilation. At length:
larry		She wants a- Rabbi Scott Oh, a Gett. Uh-huh, sure.
larry		I feel like the carpet's been yanked out from under me. I don't know which end is up. I'm not even sure how to react; I'm too confused. Rabbi Scott What reasons did she give? For the rupture?
larry		She didn't give-reasons. Just that, oh, you know, things haven't been going well. Rabbi Scott And is that true?
larry		I guess. I don't know. She's usually right about these things. Rabbi Scott Mm-hm.
larry		I feel so... addled. Rabbi Scott Yes, I can see.
larry		I was hoping that... Rabbi Nachtner... Rabbi Scott That he would... yes?
larry		Well, with the benefit of his life experience... no
larry		Um... Rabbi Scott Because with the right perspective you can see Hashem, you know, reaching into the world. He is in the world, not just in shul. It souunds to me like you're looking at the world, looking at your wife, through tired eyes. It sounds like she's become a sort of... thing... a problem... a thing...
larry		Well, she's, she's seeing Sy Ableman.
larry		She's, they're planning, that's why they want the Gett. Rabbi Scott Oh. I'm sorry.
larry		It was his idea. Rabbi Scott Well, they do need a Gett to remarry in the faith. But this is life. For you too. You can't cut yourself off from the mystical or you'll be-you'll remain-completely lost. You have to see these things as expressions of God's will. You don't have to like it, of course.
larry		The boss isn't always right, but he's always the boss. Rabbi Scott Ha-ha-ha! That's right, things aren't so bad. Look at the parking lot, LARRY. Rabbi Scott gazes out, marveling. . Just look at that parking lot.
gopnik kitchen		We hear the front door being flung open and slammed shut, and in the background foyer DANNY appears, panting heavily. He gives one glance back toward the front door and then looks at his mother and sister eating soup in the foreground. His sister has a towel wrapped turbanlike around her head. She holds it with one hand to keep it from tipping off when she tilts her head down for the soup.
danny		 We eating already?
sarah		I'm going to the hole. DANNY enters the kitchen and sits at the setting across from his sister. He picks up his spoon. Some movement in SARAH's body; DANNY recoils from a kick.
danny		Ow! Cut it out!
judith		What's going on? The siblings slurp soup, neither answering. After a couple slurps: . Isn't Dad eating?
judith		He's at the Jolly Roger.
danny		Oh yeah. More eating.
larry		Don.
don		How are you, LARRY, Jesus, I am so sorry to be seeing you under these circumstances.
larry		Oh, well...
don		I always thought you and JUDY were rock solid. This is so terrible, LARRY. This is devastating.
larry		Well, the way I look at it, it's an opportunity for me to really sit down and figure things out, and, and, look at the world afresh instead of just, you know, settling for the routine, tired old way of looking at things. Don Milgram stares at him.
don		. Really?
don		Well, legally, I have to warn you, it's never easy for the husband. Unless, of course, there's some question of the wife having violated the marriage contract.
larry		Oh no, nothing like that. She's planning to marry Sy Ableman, but they-
don		Sy Ableman!
larry		Yes, but they-
don		Esther is barely cold!
larry		She passed three years ago.
don		Well, okay, still-this changes the complexion, LARRY! Sy Ableman!
larry		Not in the sense that... there hasn't been hanky-panky. To my knowledge.
don		Oh.
larry		No. I'm fairly certain this is not an issue. And in fact they, uh, Judith wants a Gett. Beat. Don stares blankly at LARRY. LARRY clears his throat. A ritual divorce.
don		Oh.
larry		So that they can remarry in the faith-
don		Uh-huh, sure, not really a legal matter. Okay. Well. My goodness. How are the children taking it?
larry		Oh, they're very... He gropes. . resilient.
don		Good. Well. On the other thing, the neighbor's property line, I've asked Solomon Schlutz to take a look. There's very little having to do with real estate that'll get by Sol.
larry		Okay. Good. How do you-I guess I'm a little worried, how do you, I have money pressures and-
don		Our fee structure? We bill by the hour. Dave Sieglestein and Solomon Schlutz bill at a hundred and ten, the associ- ates, me for instance, bill at A secretary sticks her head in.
secretary		A call for Mr. Gopnik. DANNY. At home.
don		You can take it here.
secretary		Oh-eight-oh-nine. LARRY punches a button on a row of four on the conference-room telephone.
voice		Dad?
larry		Are you all right? Are you all-is everything-
voice		F Troop is fuzzy.
larry		. What?
voice		F Troop is still fuzzy. LARRY stares.
don		Everything okay?
car		LARRY is driving, hollow-eyed, to work. After a long beat of staring, the ka-ching of a bicycle bell.
blegen hall		LARRY enters the outer office, hugging his paper-stuffed briefcase to his chest. The secretary is just crooking the phone into her shoulder.
secretary		Oh-Professor Gopnik. It's Dick Dutton again.
larry's office		He sits in and picks up the phone.
larry		Hello?
voice		Hello, Mr. Gopnik, this is Dick Dutton from the Columbia Record Club. I'm calling because it is now, what, four months and we have yet to receive your first payment.
larry		I-there's some mistake. I'm not a member of the Columbian Record Club.
voice		Sir, you are Lawrence Gopnik of 1425 Flag Avenue South?
larry		No, I live at the Jolly Roger.
voice		Excuse me?
larry		No, I-well, yes, okay.
voice		Yes you are Lawrence Gopnik?
larry		Okay.
voice		Okay means...
larry		Okay, yes, Lawrence Gopnik, yes.
voice		Okay, well, you received your twelve introductory albums and you have been receiving the monthly main selection for four months now-
larry		"The monthly main selection?" Is that a record? I didn't
voice		To receive the monthly main selection you do nothing.
larry		That's right! I haven't done anything!
voice		Yes, that's why you receive the monthly main selection. The last
larry		But I-
voice		The last one was Santana Abraxis. You-
larry		I didn't ask for Santana Abraxis!
voice		You request the main selection at the retail price by doing nothing. It is automatically mailed to you. Plus shipping and handling. You're about to-
larry		I can't afford a new record every month! I haven't asked
voice		You're about to get Cosmo's Factory, sir. The June main selection. And you haven't-
larry		Look, something is very wrong! I don't want Santana Abraxis! I've just been in a terrible auto accident! Beat.
voice		I'm sorry sir.
larry		Well-thank you. But I-
voice		Are you okay?
larry		Yes. Yes, no one was hurt.
voice		Okay. Good. Well, you had fourteen days to listen to Santana Abraxis and return it if you weren't completely satisfied. You did nothing. And now you-
larry		I didn't ask for Santana Abraxis! I didn't listen to Santana Abraxis! I didn't do anything! The secretary is sticking her head in.
secretary		Sir.
voice		Sir. Please. We can't make you listen to the record. We-
secretary		Professor Gopnik, your son. He said it's urgent.
larry		Okay, look, I have to call you back, this is, this is I'm sorry. He irritably punches a button on the bottom row of four.
danny		Dad!
larry		Did you join the Columbia Record Club?!
danny		Um...
larry		DANNY, this is completely unacceptable. I can't afford to-
danny		Okay Dad, but you gotta come home.
larry		Is it F Troop?
danny		Huh? No no. Mom's real upset.
gopnik house		LARRY enters. We can hear weeping, semi-hysterical, from somewhere in the house. SARAH's Voice .Dad?
larry		Yes? She enters.
sarah		Does this mean I can't go to the hole tonight?
larry		Does what mean-what happened?
sarah		Sy Ableman died in a car crash. DANNY's Voice
larry		What?! DANNY enters.
danny		So are you coming back home? Can you fix the aerial? The weeping, off, grows louder and more hysterical.
larry		What?!
danny		It's still, you know... Loud wailing.
black		After a beat in black, a white title: The Second Rabbi The title fades.
rabbi's office		We are close on LARRY. He sits hunched forward, hands clasped in front of him, staring at the floor, sadly shaking his head. After a long beat:
larry		It seems like she's asking an awful lot. But then-I don't know. Somebody has to pay for Sy's funeral. Rabbi Nachtner, sitting opposite, nods. Rabbi Nachtner
larry		His own estate is in probate. But why does it have to be me? Or is it wrong to complain? JUDY says it is. But I'm so strapped for cash right now-paying for the Jolly Roger, and I wrecked the car, and DANNY's bar mitzvah... I... Rabbi Nachtner Something like this-there's never a good time.
larry		I don't know where it all leaves me. Sy's death. Obviously it's not going to go back like it was. Rabbi Nachtner Mm. Would you even want that, LARRY?
larry		No, I-well yeah! Sometimes! Or-I don't know; I guess the honest answer is I don't know. What was my life before? Not what I thought it was. What does it all mean? What is Hashem trying to tell me, making me pay for Sy Ableman's funeral? Rabbi Nachtner Mm.
larry		And-did I tell you I had a car accident the same time Sy had his? The same instant, for all I know. Is Hashem telling me that Sy Ableman is me, or we are all one or something? Rabbi Nachtner How does God speak to us: it's a good question. You know Lee Sussman?
larry		DOCTOR Sussman? I think I-yeah. Rabbi Nachtner Did he ever tell you about the goy's teeth?
larry		No... I-What goy? Rabbi Nachtner So Lee is at work one day; you know he has the orthodontic practice there at Texa-Tonka.
larry		Uh-huh. Rabbi Nachtner Right next to the Gold Eagle Cleaners. We cut to:
larry		Staring at the Rabbi. He waits a good beat. He prompts:
larry		So what did you tell him? The Rabbi seems surprised by the question. Rabbi Nachtner Sussman?
larry		Yes! Rabbi Nachtner Is it. . relevant?
larry		Well-isn't that why you're telling me? Rabbi Nachtner Mm. Okay. Nachtner says, look.. . We are back in the scene, narrated by voice-over, of the Rabbi silently advising the fretful Sussman. . The teeth, we don't know. A sign from Hashem, don't know. Helping others, couldn't hurt. LARRY's voice-over question plays over Sussman asking the same thing: LARRY  It sounds like you don't know Mthing!
the rabbi		Smiling equably at LARRY. He reacts to the ejaculation with a shrug. LARRY scowls.
larry		Why even tell me the story? Rabbi Nachtner
larry		What happened to Sussman?
sussman		In his office. Working on different patients as the Rabbi resumes his voice-over. Rabbi Nachtner What would happen? Not much. He went back to work. For a while he checked every patient's teeth for new messages; didn't see any; in time, he found he'd stopped checking. Sussman, at home, chats with his wife over dinner. . These questions that are bothering you, LARRY-maybe they're like a toothache. We feel them for a while, then they go away. Sussman lies in bed sleeping, smiling, an arm thrown across his wife.
larry		Dissatisfied.
larry		I don't want it to just go away! I want an answer! Rabbi Nachtner The answer! Sure! We all want the answer! But Hashem doesn't owe us the answer, LARRY. Hashem doesn't owe us anything. The obligation runs the other way.
larry		Why does he make us feel the questions if he's not gonna give us any answers? Rabbi Nachtner smiles at LARRY for a beat.
larry		And what happened to the goy? Rabbi Nachtner's forebearing smile fades into puzzlement. Rabbi Nachtner The goy? Who cares?
voice		Sy Ableman was a serious man!
rabbi nachtner		In close-up he gazes around, weighing the effect of the words just delivered. After a long beat during which he seeks to establish eye contact with as much of his audience as possible: Rabbi Nachtner . Sy Ableman was a man devoted to his community... Wider shows Rabbi Nachtner up on the bema. He and the congregation face each other across a casket down at floor level. . to torah study... LARRY sits among the congregants, his gaze fixed on a point off.
cop 1		Arthur Gopnik? LARRY is momentarily dumb. Inside the house we can see a corner of a card table set up in the living room with food laid out on it. SARAH sits with her back to us, head wrapped by a towel-turban. Arthur, on the far side of the table, his balding head domed by a yarmul- ka, half-leans out so that he may sneak looks toward the men at the door without totally revealing himself. From somewhere down the hall come Judith's muffled sobs. . Are you Arthur Gopnik?
larry		I'm... Laurence Gopnik. Cop I Do you go by the name Arthur Gopnik?
larry		No.
cop 1		Is that Arthur Gopnik? Arthur ducks away. From inside the living room: DANNY  Dad? What's going on?
larry		Can you tell me what's going on. We're sitting shiva here.
cop 1		You're what.
larry		A religious observance. We're... bereaved. The cop standing behind gazes in over his partner's shoulder.
cop 2		Who died?
larry		My wife's um... it's a long story.
cop 1		Look. Tell Gopnik-you know, Arthur Gopnik-he's breaking the law. We're not arresting him now but next time we will. Gambling is against the law in this state. That's just the way it is. All right. Go back to your...
cop 2		Sorry, sir.
living room		A minute later. The family-except for Judith, whose weeping continues off-sits around the card table. A long beat. At length:
larry		Arthur, how could you do that to this family. On Sy's... on Sy's-
arthur		It's a victimless crime.
larry		That doesn't make it right! And you-
danny		He won a lot of money, Dad! The Mentaculus really works! LARRY's gaze swings onto his son.
larry		You knew about it?!
danny		Well, um...
arthur		They must have finked me out. They knew I could just keep on winning, so a couple weeks ago they blackballed me, and now they've-
larry		What did you do with the money you won? Silence. Arthur sneaks a look at DANNY. LARRY looks back and forth between them. . What's going on? Arthur shrugs.
sarah		Unfair!
larry		What have you been-
arthur		What's unfair is these guys saying I can't play in their card game!
sarah		Why give him the money?! You know what he spends it on?
larry		 I know about the records.
sarah		Records?! You think he buys records from Mike Fagle? Movement in DANNY's body; SARAH recoils from a kick. . Ow! Little brat!
larry		Hey! What's going on!
danny		At least I'm not saving up for a nose job!
larry		What?!
sarah		Brat!
larry		Nobody in this house is getting a nose job! You got that?!
danny		Ali! Struck by a thought he leaps up and bolts from the room.
larry		DANNY! You weren't excused! We're still talking!
sarah		What a brat.
larry		What was this card game, Arthur?
arthur		Some goys run a private game. We hear the TV go on down the hall and the theme from F Troop. I think they're Italians.
larry		DANNY, what's going on! He rises.
bedroom		LARRY enters to look down at DANNY's back. Beyond him F Troop flickers on the TV.
larry		DANNY! We're sitting Shiva!
don		She's retained Barney Silver at Tuchman, Marsh. This is a, uh--this is an aggressive firm, LARRY.
don		These are not pleasant people. Judith is free of course to retain whoever she... I take it you don't talk to her? LARRY raises his head, squinting against the light.
larry		It's hard. I think she emptied our bank account. I tried to ask her about it, very civilly.
don		Mm.
larry		She, uh...
don		Yeah, yeah you better open an account in your name only, put your paychecks in there from here on out. Til we know where we stand.
larry		Can I?
don		Oh, absolutely!
larry		That's not, um, dishonest?
don		Oh, absolutely! You, uh-
larry		I hate to say this, but I think she's also been sneaking cash out of my wallet.
don		Ouch. Well, yes, this is definitely, um, adversarial. The
larry		Just a sunburn. I've been spending a lot of time on the roof. For... perspective. He trails off and his head drops back down onto his arms. Don gives him an appraising look.
don		. Have you seen the Rabbi?
larry		 Talked to Nachtner.
don		You should talk to Minda.
larry		They told me Minda doesn't do pastoral work any more. Just.. . ceremonial.
don		Mm. Congratulates the bar mitzvah boy every week, so forth? LARRY nods miserably. . That's too bad. A very wise man, Minda. LARRY raises his head.
larry		Getting old.
don		Very old.
larry		No, me.
don		LARRY, you're fine. It's a bump in the road. Was Nachtner helpful at all? LARRY gives a helpless shrug. Don rolls his eyes. . What-did he tell you about the goy's teeth? A knock on the door. Don projects: Yeah? The door cracks open. A pipe edges in, followed by a peeking face: Solomon Schlutz. . Oh, good! Sol, come on in. Solomon Schlutz is a large man in shirtsleeves and suspenders. He has the smooth impassive face of a sphynx with a pipe clenched in its teeth. He glides into the room, a sheaf of files tucked under one arm. . Sol has been looking into the property-line issues.. . Solomon Schlutz seats himself at the conference table and starts sorting and arranging the files into three piles. . It seems that you do have a real problem with the original survey. But Sol seems to think there's some kind of nifty way for us to-well, I haven't heard it myself, I'll let Sol map it out. Solomon Schlutz continues to arrange the files, his eye occasionally lingering on a specific page. When at length he is finished he carefully justifies the edges of the closest pile, takes the pipe out of his mouth, gives LARRY a smile that seems to take some effort, and then taps the pipe in a large glass ashtray. He looks up again at LARRY, this time shocked. His stunned look on LARRY holds for a long beat. LARRY returns a bewildered look.
don		.Sol? Solomon Schlutz's face now passes from the red end of the spectrum to the purple. Solomon Schlutz Nnnnff! The pipe clatters out of his hand. The hand grabs at his own shirt front. . Glufffl... Now his head pitches back. His backflung weight and twisting body send his chair tipping over, one hand still clutching at his chest while the other frantically waves. He disappears behind the conference table and lands with a floor-shaking thump. His writhing and gurgling remain audible.
don		Sol! Sol! Don Milgram has risen to look down at his fallen colleague; now he flings open the conference room door and bellows into the office: An ambulance! Quick! Somebody call an ambulance! A
secretary		Dick Dutton. Columbia Record Club.
larry		Call back.
his office		LARRY sits in heavily behind his desk. A beat. He opens the top left desk drawer. He withdraws the bulging white envelope and opens its flap. He runs a finger over the wad of bills.
larry		I'm... fine. Arlen Finkle I'm sorry. I know you've hit a rough patch.
larry		Thank you. I'm fine. He puts the envelope in the desk drawer and closes it.
larry		Arlen, I am not an evil man! Arlen looks at him, shocked. Arlen Finkle LARRY! Of course not!
larry		I am not- Arlen Finkle We don't make moral judgments!
larry		I went to the Aster Art once. I saw Swedish Reverie. Arlen Finkle It's okay, LARRY, we don't need to know! The Tenure
larry		It wasn't even erotic! Although it was, in a way. Arlen Finkle It's all right, LARRY. Believe me. LARRY calms somewhat.
larry		. Okay. Arlen Finkle Okay. Okay. We, uh, we decide on Wednesday, so if there's anything you want to submit in support of your tenure application, we should have it by then. That's all.
larry		I haven't done anything. Arlen Finkle Uh-huh.
larry		I haven't published. Arlen Finkle Uh-huh.
larry		Are you still getting those letters? Arlen Finkle Uh-huh.
larry		Those anonymous- Arlen Finkle Yes, I know. Yes. A beat. LARRY nods.
larry		Okay. Okay. Wednesday. Arlen Finkle Okay. Don't worry. Doing nothing is not bad. Ipso facto.
larry		Sure.
classroom		We are close over LARRY's shoulder as he scribbles symbols onto the chalkboard.
larry		. and that means... so that... from which we derive... His glances back toward the class show that he is wearier, baggier-eyed, more haggard than ever. There is also something odd about his posture. He writes smaller and smaller so as to finish before hitting the right edge of the chalkboard. . and also.. which lets us... and... Wider as he finishes and straightens up, revealing that he has been stooping to write across the very bottom of the board. The equation covers every inch of the classroom-wide three-paneled chalkboard. LARRY is an off balance figure at the right edge of frame. Reverse on the class: staring. Okay? LARRY claps chalk dust from his hands. . The Uncertainty Principle. It proves we can't ever really know... what's going on. A bell sounds. The students start to shake off their stupor and rise. LARRY projects over the wallah: . So it shouldn't bother you. Not being able to figure anything out. Although you will be responsible for this on the mid-term. The thinning crowd gradually reveals one person still seated: Sy Ableman. He wears a prayer shawl and yarmulka.
larry		Well, it might be that, in, you know, in L'olam ha-bah- Sy Ableman Excuse me. Not the issue. In this world, LARRY. He nods at the chalkboard. . I'll concede that it's subtle. It's clevva. But at the end of the day, is it convincing?
larry		Well-yes it's convincing. It's a proof. It's mathematics. Sy Ableman Excuse me, LARRY. Mathematics. Is the art of the possible. LARRY's brow furrows.
larry		I don't think so. The art of the possible, that's... I can't remember... something else... Sy Ableman I'm a serious man, LARRY.
larry		I know that. So if I've got it wrong, what do I- Sy Ableman holds up one hand to silence him. Sy Ableman So simple, LARRY. See Minda.
larry		I know, I want to see Minda! I want to see Minda! They told me that oonh! Without our having seen him rise or cross the room Sy Ableman has body-slammed LARRY into the chalkboard. Now he grabs LARRY by the hair and whips his head against the equation. As he slams LARRY's head, again and again, the chalkboard chatters and the fringes on Sy's tallis dance. Sy Ableman See Minda! See Minda! I fucked your wife, LARRY! I seriously fucked her! That's what's going on! See Minda!
larry		Very close on his eyes as they open. His head is on a pillow. Dull early light. A hissing sound. LARRY looks blearily over. On the vanity table just outside the motel bathroom door sits Uncle Arthur's cyst evacuator. Its waggling hose snakes into the cracked bathroom door as the machine hisses.
mezuza		On a doorpost. A hand enters to knock. A long beat. The person knocking gives up and his footsteps start to go away just as the door opens to reveal an attractive woman the sunbathing neighbor, now wearing plaid shorts and a buttoned white blouse. Her point-of-view: LARRY, frozen halfway down the stoop, head turned back up toward the door.
woman		Mr. Gopnik.
larry		Oh. Hello, Mrs. Samsky. I knocked, and then thought you weren't here. I, uh... Mrs. Samsky's voice is soft and breathy: Mrs. Samsky It just took me a second to get to the door. I was out back. LARRY stands nodding. He seems to need prompting. Mrs. Samsky does: . Can I help you? Wanna come in?
larry		No, I- One hand on the door, she steps back. Mrs. Samsky It's cooler.
larry		Oh. Okay. I just wanted to let you know... He is entering.
inside		After the outside glare the house does indeed seem cooler. LARRY looks around the living room, dim but neat. Wavering light sifts through closed vertical blinds which drift and click over floor-vented air-conditioning. Mrs. Samsky closes the door, shutting out all sound from outside.
larry		I've noticed that Mr. Samsky isn't around, and I- Mrs. Samsky He travels.
larry		Uh-huh. Yeah, I never seem to see him, so I thought I should let you know, since you're somewhat new here, if you ever have, whatever, chores that you'd, um, or just help with something-I've decided to help others-you know, in a neighborly way... She gazes at him with the least hint of a smile and waits for the speech to dribble away to silence. In the ensuing beat, quiet except for the clicking of the blinds, she is perfectly still. Finally, only her mouth moves: Mrs. Samsky How thoughtful. LARRY shrugs off the compliment.
larry		Oh it's nothing. It's just good to know your neighbors. And to help. Help others. Although I don't care much for my neighbors on the other side, I must say. Mrs. Samsky lets another smiling silence pass before responding. Mrs. Samsky . Goys, aren't they?
larry		Mm. Very much so. Maybe it's not fair to judge; I have to admit I- Mrs. Samsky Won't you sit down?
larry		Oh! Um. Okay. Thank you. Mrs. Samsky Iced tea? I have some. She is already turning to the kitchen.
larry		Okay.. . He watches her and reacts to: The backs of her thighs. The flesh retains the broad cross-hatch of her lawn chair. She disappears into the kitchen, but calls out: Mrs. Samsky I don't see you around much, either.
larry		Yes. Actually I haven't been home a lot recently, I, uh, my wife and I are, uh, well, she's got me staying at the Jolly Roger, the little motel there on- Mrs. Samsky is reentering with two tall glasses of iced tea beaded with moisture. The click of the ice cubes joins the clicking of the blinds. Mrs. Samsky You're in the doghouse, huh? She hands him a glass as she sits on the couch next to him, not invasively close, one bare leg folded onto the couch, the other draped over it.
larry		Yeah, that's an understatement I guess, I -thank you-I,
larry		. What do you mean. Her look holds for one more beat and then she swivels and opens the drawer of an end table.
larry		That's... Marijuana? Mrs. Samsky Mm-hmm. She hands the joint over. . You'll find you'll need the iced tea. LARRY handles the bitty cigarette with trepidation.
larry		Is it. . well.. . okay...
larry		Maybe Rabbi Scott was right. Mrs. Samsky Who's Rabbi Scott?
larry		The junior rabbi. Mrs. Samsky The junior rabbi.
larry		He spoke of.. perception. All my problems are just... just a... a mere.. He trails off, listening. . Is that a siren? Mrs. Samsky No. Some people get a little paranoid when they... Holy cow... That is a siren.
outside		The Samsky's door opens and LARRY stumbles out. He stares. The police car has stopped in front of his own house next door, lights still flashing. Two cops are going up the walk with Uncle Arthur between them in handcuffs. LARRY, stunned, walks woodenly toward his house.
larry		Hey! Neither the cops nor Uncle Arthur has heard. They have rung the doorbell and now disappear inside. LARRY projects louder-
danny		Sort of. He sleeps on the couch.
larry		This is crazy! This brings the cops' look around. Uncle Arthur also turns, shamefaced, to LARRY.
cop		Does this man live here?
arthur		I didn't know what to tell them! They asked for my address.. .
larry		It's just mathematics! You can't arrest a man for mathematics!
arthur		I didn't know whether to say I lived here or at the Jolly Roger.
cop		You know this man?
arthur		I figured this would sound more... I don't know... Mrs. Samsky appears behind LARRY on the stoop.
danny		Dad, why is Uncle Arthur in handcuffs?
larry		It's all a mistake. I mean, not a mistake, a, a-
arthur		Hello, Mrs. Samsky.
larry		-a miscarriage-
cop		Does this man live here?
danny		He sleeps on the couch.
larry		Look! What did he do!
arthur		Nothing! I didn't do anything!
danny		It folds out. Dad sleeps on a cot.
larry		You can't just-
cop		Sir, we picked this man up at the North Dakota. LARRY is brought up short.
larry		The North Dakota!
arthur		But I didn't do anything!
danny		Dad, what's the North Dakota?
cop		Solicitation. Sodomy. Very serious.
larry		. The North Dakota! We hold on LARRY's shocked reaction as we hear DANNY, off:
danny		What's Sodomy, Dad?
don milgram		He wears a black armband. He sits thinking, bouncing steepled fingers against his nose.
don		What does Arthur say?
larry		He says he didn't do anything.
don		Uh-huh.
larry		He says. . . he just went in for a drink.
don		Uh-huh. Long beat. . Does Arthur drink?
larry		No.
don		Uls-huh.
larry		. He says he was confused.
don		Uh-huh. Uh-huh. Well. The North Dakota. Well. You'll need a criminal attorney.
larry		Okay. Who's-
don		Ron Meshbesher.
larry		Is he good?
don		Ron is very good. LARRY's gaze wanders. He becomes wistful.
larry		I don't understand. He goes to mixers at the Hillel House.
don		Mm. A beat. . I would call Ron Meshbesher.
larry		Is he expensive?
don		Ron is not cheap. Don focuses on LARRY. Cheerful change of subject: . DANNY's bar mitzvah is... ?
larry		This week.
don		This shabbas! Great! He nods. . It'll be okay. Try to relax, LARRY. Try to relax.
larry		Oh my God, Mrs. Samsky... Beyond her head LARRY can see the low cottage-cheese ceiling of the bedroom. Outside we can hear Gar Brandt mowing the lawn. Suddenly we hear muffled laughter and the front door opening. LARRY panics. He hisses: . Who is it? Footsteps are approaching along the hall. Mrs. Samsky doesn't react; she looks calmly down at LARRY even as the bedroom door opens behind her and CLIVE Park walks in wearing a traffic mask. LARRY is mortified: CLIVE, please! Wait outside! Mrs. Samsky blows smoke into LARRY's eyes. The screen goes black. Close on LARRY as he opens his eyes. A shadow falls across his face. His point-of-view: a wooden plank is just being slid into place over his head. The bang of hammer on nailhead. In the black:
larry		He stands looking down in low shot. Above him is cheap Johnson-Armstrong dropped ceiling.
larry		Please. I need help. I've already talked to the other rabbis. Please. Reverse shows an elderly eastern European woman seated behind a desk, looking up at
secretary		The rabbi is busy.
larry		He didn't look busy! As she starts shuffling papers:
secretary		He's thinking.
night		Sidor Belarsky comes in at the cut.
larry		Arthur... ? Arthur? Arthur is a dim mound on the next bed. His weeping continues. For no reason LARRY continues to keep his voice to a whisper: . Arthur. What's wrong? No answer. . Arthur. It'll be okay. Arthur. We'll get Ron Meshbesher. It'll be okay-
larry		Arthur! LARRY leaps from his bed, also in his underwear. He goes to the door but pauses, peering cautiously outside. Satisfied that the courtyard is deserted, he plunges into it.
courtyard		The courtyard/parking lot is hardlit by ghastly mercury vapor lights. The pool, surrounded by chain-link fence, has been drained. Its white concrete interior is cracked
arthur		It's all shit, LARRY! It's all shit!
larry		Arthur. Don't use that word.
arthur		It's all fucking shit!
larry		Arthur! Come on!
arthur		Look at everything Hashem has given you! And what do I get! I get fucking shit!
larry		Arthur. What do I have. I live at the Jolly Roger.
arthur		You've got a family. You've got a job. Hashem hasn't given me bupkes.
larry		It's not fair to blame Hashem, Arthur. Please. Sometimes -please calm down-sometimes you have to help your- self.
larry		Arthur. Please.
arthur		Hashem hasn't given me shit. Now I can't even play cards. He starts weeping again. LARRY looks around.
larry		Arthur. This isn't the right forum. Please. Not by the pool. Arthur weeps. Arthur... It's okay... It's okay...
morning		LARRY and Arthur are driving. We are looking at the two of them square through a windshield in which towering conifers stream by in reflection. It seems to be a glorious day.
larry		Is this it? Both men peer out.
arthur		I think so... yeah... there... He indicates the road ahead.
a signpost		The old-fashioned kind with wooden fingers pointing the different directions. One points toward CANADA.
boundary waters		Beautiful, wooded, remote. The car is parked at water's edge, having backed down a lane of two tracks worn through the undergrowth. LARRY and Arthur are lowering the canoe into water.
larry		Okay.. . He straightens. Arthur straightens. LARRY hugs him. .Look... They separate and LARRY pulls a white envelope from his pocket and gives it to Arthur. . This'll help you get back on your feet. Arthur looks into the envelope.
arthur		Oh my God. Where did you get this?
larry		Doesn't matter. When you-
arthur		This is a lot of money!
larry		It should get you started.
arthur		This is a lot of money! Are you sure you don't need it?
larry		Arthur, I'm fine. Come on, get in. When you're settled...
arthur		Are you sure this is okay?
larry		It's fine. It's fine... LARRY waves. Arthur waves bravely back, then turns to pick up the oars. A couple of strokes and he turns back again with a last thought. He calls:
arthur		LARRY. I'm sorry. What I said last night.
larry		I know. It's okay. A lingering look from Arthur, and then he turns back to row. A gunshot. Blood spurts from the back of Uncle Arthur's neck. He slumps forward, dead.
voice		Good shot! LARRY looks wildly around. He sees: Gar Brandt and Mitch in their camo fatigues, hard to pick out in the foliage. They are looking off toward the canoe, Mitch just lowering his rifle. Gar Brandt's look swings around, into the lens. He points at us: There's another Jew, son.
larry		Gasping awake in the motel room. He looks around. It is dawn. Arthur sits on the edge of his bed in his underwear, staring off into space, slackjawed, vacant-eyed, drained. LARRY gazes around the room, waiting for things to fall into place. Finally, blearily:
larry		Were we... out at the pool last night? Arthur, still staring off, responds in a flat, empty voice:
arthur		Yes. I'm sorry. LARRY blinks sleep away. After a beat:
larry		It's shabbas. Another beat. Arthur heaves a deep sigh.
arthur		I'll go drain my cyst.
restroom		Day. A two-urinal, two-stall men's room of old tile and yellowed fixtures. We are low. One of the stall doors is closed. Under it we see the dress shoes and dress pants of two young men standing inside. We hear a long sucking inhale. Ronnie Nudell's Voice Gimme that fucker. A loudly projected echoing male voice:
voice		Ya'amod hab'rayshit.
sanctuary		DANNY, seated in the second pew next to his parents and sister and Uncle Arthur, rises and shuffles along the row to the aisle. His eyes are wide and red-rimmed. The prelapped voice was his call to the torah. All eyes in the congregation, which fills the large sanctuary, are on him. In great echoing silence he walks to the steps on the right side of the bema and climbs. The right-side lectern is surrounded by a gaggle of old Jewish men. They busy themselves with the preparation of the pair of scrolls on the lectern, rolling them, pausing, rolling some more, muttering prayers, kissing the scrolls by means of their tsitsim. They pay DANNY no attention. DANNY takes his place centered behind the lectern. His chin comes up to the bottom of the reading platform. Men continue to mutter prayers around him. A pair of hands appear on his shoulders from behind. DANNY looks down at the strange hands. They pull him back. A foot drags a small riser out from under the lectern. Hands push DANNY up onto the riser.
voice		Nefesh echad sheichayim, yitzeh gamor shel effashot... DANNY is still staring at the end of the yad against the parchment scroll. Someone's hand enters and moves the yad to a different place in the text. The voice repeats: . Nefesh echad sheichayim, yitzeh gamor shel effashot... DANNY looks up from the scrolls. In the congregation Ronnie Nudell sits hunched-shouldered and squished between his parents. He returns DANNY's red-rimmed slack-jawed stare. The insistent voice: . Nefesh echad shelchayim, yitzeh gamor shel effashot... DANNY looks over. From the surrounding scrum the prompter nods at him. He looks somewhat like Cantor Youssele Rosenblatt.
danny		Nefesh echad shelchayim, yitzeh gamor shel effashot. .
prompter		Mm-hm. DANNY continues to boom out the torah portion. He moves the yad along the line of letters. In the congregation, LARRY and Judith watch. We hear DANNY chanting fluently and LARRY squeezes the hand Judith has laced through his arm. Juith whispers:
judith		I'm sorry that... things have been so hard for us...
larry		It's okay.
judith		Sy had so much respect for you, LARRY. He pats her hand. A beat. . He wrote letters to the tenure committee.
later		The congregation is loudly singing V'Zos Hatorah. A tallised man of late middle age
man		Jesus Christ.. .
later		DANNY stands behind the left lectern facing Rabbi Nachtner who holds a small kiddush cup out to him. Although Rabbi Nachtner seems to be addressing DANNY, he is projecting loudly.
nachtner		. taking your place as a member of our tribe. You will go and see Rabbi Minda after the service. You will cele- brate in a reception downstairs in Schanfield Hall. And then you will be a member of B'Nai Abraham and of the Nation of Israel. DANNY Gopnik, the Sisterhood makes a gift to you of this kiddush cup so that you will remember this blessed day on the next shabbas and the next, and on every shabbas of a long and fruitful life, and, until that wonderful day when you stand under the chupa, we say.. .
congregation		Amen. DANNY, still red-eyed, tries to focus. His point-of-view shows the kiddush cup large in the foreground, extended toward him by the Rabbi beaming above. His own hand rises into frame to grasp the kiddush cup. The congregation starts Adon Olam.
a door		Creaking open. The cut has snapped off the robust Adon Olam, leaving sepulchral quiet. DANNY, clutching his kiddush cup, hesitantly enters the dim study. Minda's elderly eastern European gatekeeper closes the door behind him. Minda is an old man staring at him from behind a bare desktop. His look, eyes magnified by thick glasses, is impossible to read. DANNY creeps to the chair facing the desk. He gingerly sits on the squeaking leather upholstery, self-conscious under Minda's stare. Minda breathes regularly through his mouth. It is the only sound in the room. A long beat. The two sit face to face. Minda smacks his lips a couple of times, preparing to speak. Another beat.
minda		When the truth is found. To be lies. He pauses. He clears his throat. At length: . And all the hope. Within you dies. Another beat. DANNY waits. Minda stares. He smacks his lips again. . Then what? DANNY doesn't answer. It is unclear whether the question was directed at him. Quiet.
larry's office		LARRY is at his desk sorting through mail. Arlen Finkle (off DANNY was magnificent. LARRY looks up: Arlen is leaning in his accustomed spot in the office doorway.
larry		Oh. Thank you, Arlen. Arlen Finkle Mazel tov. It was wonderful.
larry		Yes it was. Thank you. Arlen Finkle Such a time of nachas, LARRY. He's your youngest. You have to savor it.
larry		I do. I will. Arlen Finkle See you at the staff caf.
larry		Yes. Arlen shoves off to go, but hesitates. Arlen Finkle I just... I shouldn't tell you. I'm not telling you officially. The tenure candidates aren't notified til Monday.
larry		. Yes? Arlen nods. Arlen Finkle You'll be very pleased. LARRY stares at him.
larry		Thank you, Arlen. Over his back as he goes: Arlen Finkle I didn't say anything. Mazel tov.
larry's office		He fingers the invoice. Close on a printed detail: PAYABLE: and, typed underneath: Upon Receipt. Wind is whipping rain hard against the window.
larry's office		He is staring down at his desktop. Thunder. He reaches up and scratches his nose as he stares at his desk. On the desk: a ledger sheet with a list of students' names. Next to each name, a grade. LARRY drums his fingers. He picks up a pencil. He goes down to PARK, CLIVE. Next to it is an F. He waggles the pencil, eraser-end thumping the sheet. He erases the F. He enters a C. The pencil leaves frame. We hold for a beat on the new grade. The hand reenters. It puts a minus sign after the C. The hand withdraws. LARRY closes the file. Just as he does so: The phone jangles, very harsh. LARRY looks at it, frozen. He lets it ring a couple times. He reaches for it. He slowly picks it up.
larry		. Hello?
larry		. Yes?
voice		Hi, Len Shapiro.
larry		Oh. Hello Dr. Shapiro. Dr. Shapiro Listen, mazel tov on DANNY.
larry		Yes, thank you. Dr. Shapiro Listen, could you come in to discuss these X-ray results? LARRY sits frozen, phone to his ear. . Hello?
larry		Yes? Dr. Shapiro LARRY, could you come in and discuss these X-ray results? Remember the X-rays we took?
larry		. We can't discuss them on the phone? Thunder. Pattering rain.
larry		When? Dr. Shapiro Now. Now is good. I've cleared some time now.
car		We are looking through a windshield lashed by rain at LARRY, driving. His hands are clenched tight on the wheel. Wipers pump to keep up with the rain. The cars behind have their lights on. It has gotten quite dark. Passing streetlights rhythmically sweep LARRY's face, their light stippled and bent by the rain on the windows.
danny		Hey! Fagle! From behind DANNY, over his shoulder: we see a funnel cloud in the middle distance. A growing rumble. The tornado is approaching. At the first downbeat of its chorus the Jefferson Airplane song bumps up full.
****Dialogues from script :above_the_law.txt****

dissolve to:		2   EXT. JUNGLE - DAY Blowing through the roof of a dense jungle straight AT CAMERA, HELICOPTER ROTORS RISE to a DEAFENING PITCH. SUPER:  Viet - Cambodian Border, 1972. Jungle foliage whips in the fierce downdraft as -- 3   "HUEY" GUNSHIP with US Army markings becomes discernible. The chopper lowers toward a crude landing zone hacked out of the wilderness. We GLIMPSE Cambodian troops and several machine gun positions around the LZ. 4   EXT. JUNGLE - TWO ARMED AMERICANS - DAY watch from the edge of the landing zone. We recognize Nico and Fox, now in their twenties, dressed in the nonmilitary jungle attire that usually marks a CIA "spook."
fox		You ever see chemical interrogation before?
cut to:		12   EXT. JUNGLE - NIGHT
nico		 Why don't you light a bonfire?
zagon		That's the nice thing about modern technology. You don't have to wait for results.
zagon		 You're a hard nigger, aren't you, boy? You took it from the Chinks... you took it from the French. You'll be fucked if some Yankee peckerwood's gonna start your gums flapping -- Nico watches Zagon move the knife blade closer to the prisoner.
zagon		-- Well, you're gonna chirp for me, tough guy. You're gonna sing like a choir --
fox		 Fox -- FOX Shut up, Nico.
zagon		You can disappear as easy as this slope, kid --
fox		Are you crazy?!!  What the fuck's the matter with you?!!! Nico is shaking with rage and fear. He takes several steps away from the hooch, then draws up abruptly. Nico pulls his .45 from his holster, pops the safety, starts back for the hooch -- FOX Nico! NICO I don't cap him now, he's gonna do me later.
fox		I'll cover this. Get back to the L.Z. --  -- I'll fix it! Get out! Get the fuck outa here! The CIT man calls out to the Cambodian troops, in dialect, pointing at Nico. The soldiers start toward Nico, as if to seize him. Fox, too, starts yelling to the troops in dialect, apparently countermanding the orders of the CIT men. The troops, confused, hold up for a moment.
fox		 I'll call for a chopper... get outa here!
fade to black.		FADE IN ON:
nico		I think we got a little problem here.
jackson		Eight more days, Lieutenant. You better start preparing your defense.
henderson		Baby, I'm gonna put you on retainer.
lukich		You passed the bar? I make it a point never to pass the bar. Jackson sees Nico and Sara across the yard, waves and          * starts toward them -- 39   BACK TO BRANCA AND LUIGI
jackson		Look at this little bundle.    What a cupcake!
nico		You give up being the D.A. and hurry up and find the right fella, Jax. You might have time for one of these yourself.
nico		Watanabe!   Say hey, Doc.
branca		You're a father now. Are you gonna take me up on my offer?
nico		I'm happy, Branca.    I like what I do. Branca glances seriously to the other uncles, then, with a smile, pats Nico's cheek. BRANCA Look at this face! Six-foot-four, pretty as the statue of David. And he's a cop! Branca laughs. From a distance, Watanabe watches, missing nothing. Across the porch, Lukich and several other cops observe and try to listen. BRANCA This face should be sticking up from a white shirt. It should be a banker, a businessman, someone who earns a decent living for his family! NICO We're happy. LUIGI Nickels and dimes. Your wife's a woman with class. What did she run -- a ballet school...? NICO An art gallery. BRANCA Same thing. She wants a husband who carries a briefcase, not a shoulder holster. Jackson watches Nico trying to keep his good humor. This is serious stuff, despite the light tone. Branca's eyes meet Nico's.
branca		You wanted to get shot, you got shot. You wanted to get knifed, you got knifed. You've had your fun. Basta! Enough! UNCLE GUISEPPE Let your family help you, Nico.
nico		 Uncle Gio, that kind of help I don't need. I'd rather get shot by someone I don't know. Jackson and Lukich crack up. The others follow.   For the moment, the tension is dispelled.
nico		Mrs. Z.  Is this a way to act on the day of my son's baptism? The poor woman can't meet Nico's eyes.
nico		Listen to me, Mrs. Z. Are you listening?  I have to go to work now. But I'll come by tonight. You'll be at the bakery? MRS. ZINGARO Si, Nico. NICO We'll talk, okay? We'll find a way to take care of this.
jackson		And then you're gonna come visit me in a nice, clean, air conditioned office --
nico		I gotta take a quick leak. Stay put.
nico		Come on.   Show me something. No one moves.
nico		I get it.   It's a gay bar.   Is that it?
nico		You seen the top of her head, huh? Like I seen your mother's --  She's upstairs! 4-D! Nico drags the Dude from behind the bar.     Holding him, Nico turns, glowering, to all. NICO You cocksuckers are brave enough with 14-year-old girls. 55A   INT. FLOPHOUSE HALLWAY
nico		 Get outta here. We look in the apartment.
nico		 This ain't your day, kid.
pimp		Wait, man.   It ain't like it looks --
nico		That's two years. He jerks the Pimp back, rips open a drawer.    More pills and glacene bags. NICO That's four.  ... I can get ya more --
quick cutaway to:		57   EXT. STREET OUTSIDE - JACKSON
lucy		Let him alone! He's beautiful!
nico		Not when I get through with him. Nico lifts the Pimp by the throat, pins him to the wall.
pimp		No, man, wait! I'll give you something! Something big!
lucy		Please, Nico!    Don't! PIMP It's huge! I swear it! A shipment... coming in next Tuesday -- NICO Shipment, my ass. PIMP This is square! On my mother's soul! You can't send me up -- Nico glances to Lucy. Half of him wants to tear the Pimp apart, the other half doesn't want to make the poor girl's life any more tragic. Besides, he's a good cop -- and maybe this "shipment" is on the level. PIMP I heard it from a hooker friend of mine. She's banging some big coke lawyer, he told her. I swear to Jesus!
pimp		I don't know.  That platinum chola... Carla DeCarlo... she knows. Nico tightens his grip on the Pimp's throat.
pimp		She got popped this afternoon. She's downtown. Red dress, lizard shoes --
jackson		It's okay, girl. Mama Jax is here.
jackson		 That was some leak you took. From the door of the bar, several bloodied heads peek. JACKSON Broken windows and lost pussy cats, huh. Jackson checks out her battered partner.
jackson		You're one crazy bastard, Toscani. Nico opens the rear door, helps Jackson ease Lucy in.
nico		We'll get her some clothes and a bath. I'm not bringing her home to her grandmother like this. DISSOLVE TO:
jackson		I don't get you, Toscani.  -- I know I'm not going to change the world. I can't stop the tonnage coming in, I can't fight the boys behind the desks pushing their buttons --
nico		Carla... Carla -- I just want the name of your boyfriend -- CARLA I got 200 boyfriends. The hooker, Carla DeCarlo, slaps the box away, cursing in Spanish.
carla		Pinchi cabron, cabeza colon!
jackson		 Take it easy, sister. JACKSON I ain't your goddamn sister.   We ain't got the same mother, motherfucka. Carla fires one final parting salvo of obscenities, then sags back among the women. Carla starts to cry. Jackson comforts her; Carla responds, lets herself be comforted. CUT TO: 66   EXT. DOWNTOWN - FINANCIAL DISTRICT - DAY Jackson, back in her normal daytime wear, exits a building. She gets into Nico's car.
nico		Maybe we can bust him for that. Jackson spots something, gestures subtly out window --
jackson		That's our stud.
salvano		 -- I brought you in for your muscles, Nardo, not your mouth.
nardo		 I'm sorry, boss.
salvano		Your English is getting good... You're showing it off. Showing it off on the street --
nardo		I keep quiet.    I never talk no more --
nardo		 I thought I was fucking dead.
chi chi		You were right, cabron.                            *
chi chi		We're crazy waiting for this bullshit 'shipment.' Let me waste the other fucker now.
jackson		Toscani, you're going to have me doing time.
nico		Lighten up, Jax. No one's bringing this into court.
jackson		Except against us. NICO I don't give a shit how we do it. I just wanna get there. Jackson gives Nico a dirty look, but stifles her protest.
jackson		I thought you said you were gonna protect me. Cover my butt. Be my guardian angel -- Nico hears something through the earphones.    Gestures for silence -- 80   ANGLE THROUGH OFFICE WINDOW Chi Chi listens with increased intensity to something on the phone. He starts writing it down -- 81   BACK TO NICO In unmarked car.   He's writing it down too. NICO I got the shipment.                                  * JACKSON What?    What's he saying?
nico		 '... Engine block has cleared customs. Serial number VA-748. Pick up Tuesday, 3 May as authorized.'
jackson		Salvano? NICO Jackpot.
hostess		Two for dinner?
nico		Two for drinks. They elbow up to the packed bar, standing.   Nico squints toward the rear dining room.
nico		Cheer up, partner.   I'm gonna make you famous.
jackson		You missed a few spots, boys. LUKICH I'm takin' it home t'a make kilbasa, boss.
lukich		This ain't a bust -- it's a convention. NICO Don't you like company, Luke?  That's enough, all of you! Keep this channel clear.
nico		 You stay put.                                       *
nico		 It's going down now. Move! 103   EXT. REAR OF PACKING PLANT - DAY The station wagon men heave their rear door open, the van men start to open their side door. The Lincoln is stopped at a distance. Suddenly -- 104   NICO AND LUKICH burst from the rear door of the packing plant, guns drawn. LUKICH Police! 105   QUICK CUTS - VAN AND STATION WAGON MEN grab for their weapons --
nico		 How many kilos you got in there, Skivuzo? Salvano couldn't answer if he wanted to. The other cops look at Nico with awe. Lukich whips the van door open, yanks a tarp off the cargo. 123   INT. VAN The engine block sits in a wooden shipping frame, wrapped with industrial plastic. Nico climbs into the van, rips the plastic sheeting off, grabs the wood slats of the shipping frame, tears them off. In the background, ambulances are arriving to care for the wounded cops and criminals.
nico		What kinda fuckin' high is this? CUT TO:
salvano		-- I'll tell you what this cop is. He's a fucking menace!
agent halloran		Your problem is being handled right now, Mr. Salv -- SALVANO Yeah? Well, it shoulda been handled twelve hours ago. I don't know who's running this outfit, but somebody better get his goddamn wires straight! AGENT NEELEY                           *  -- count on it, sir. Right. You'll have our full cooperation. Neeley hangs up. Glances dubiously to Halloran. Then turns     * grimly to Salvano, Chi Chi and the lawyer Abandano.
lieutenant strozah		The tapes too.
nico		 That's my Lawrence Welk collection!
lieutenant strozah		I want everything you got on this one. Reluctantly, Nico hands over the tapes.   The Lieutenant eyes the bugs and wires. LIEUTENANT STROZAH I know you don't give a shit about yourself, Toscani.  But you're gonna put Jackson's ass in a sling, too, with these illegal wires.
jackson		Bad bad.
jackson		Is that enough? Can we do something normal now -- like eat lunch?
nico		Anything you say, Jax.   How about Salvano's?
jackson		Let it be, Nico.
jackson		What... you kept his tape, too? Nico already has it in the PLAYER. We hear FRAGMENTS of the telephone tap from the body shop in Spanish and English. Jackson looks frustrated. Nico listens care- fully to what appears to be the taped PHONE CONVERSATION. NICO Poetry, ain't it? 140   EXT. REAR SALVANO'S RESTAURANT - DAY 
jackson		This is your mother's church, isn't it?
nico		Yeah. But I bet she's never seen these boys in the choir. 150    NICO'S POV
nico		Father Genarro. The priest seizes Nico's hand warmly, smiles at Jackson.
father genarro		This must be your partner in crime.  It's good you stopped by. I have to show you something. Please. The priest begins leading Nico and Jackson. Jackson keeps glancing back out the alley to see Salvano's car slowly driving by. 153   INT. CHURCH BASEMENT - DAY
father genarro		The rats are getting bigger. NICO When did this happen?
father genarro		Two nights ago. I didn't call the police.
father genarro		 It's all right, son. These are friends.
father tomassino		How do you do? Nico shakes the young priest's hand. There is a moment between them as Nico meets Tomassino's eyes, liking what he sees. The refugees are relieved, however, when Father Genarro, Nico and Jackson take their leave. 155   NICO, JACKSON AND FATHER GENARRO
father genarro		Too long. At least the kids can go to our school.
nico		Who did it, Father?
father genarro		Kids, maybe.  Maybe worse. It's not the first time. JACKSON We can have a car check by, every hour.
father genarro		No... please.    Police frighten these people.
father genarro		Tell me, Nico... When was your last confession?
nico		I'm a married man, Father.   I've got no sins to confess.
father genarro		You're a police officer, you have many sins to confess. JACKSON Amen. Nico and Jackson start off.
rosa		Father Genarro! I have you to thank for getting my son back into church!
father genarro		It's amazing what shame can accomplish.
quick dissolve to:		161   VARIOUS SHOTS
rosa		 Help the others! Help them, Nico!
cut to:		173   STATUE OF JESUS
cut back to:		174   ANGLE ON CONGREGATION
nico		 Sara, get the baby and Mama                        * outside. Nico starts for the altar where the damage is worst.
nico		Find out where they're from, why anyone would want to harm them.
nico		Just stay near a radio.   I'll find you.
nico		Sara... go down to the car; I'll                    * be with you in a minute. He hails Neeley.                                              *
nico		I need to talk to you.  What the hell is it, Toscani? Without warning, Nico grabs Neeley by both lapels, slams      * him furiously into the wall! NICO You.   That's what the hell it is! AGENT NEELEY                          * Get your goddam hands off me! Neeley tries to shake free; Nico won't let him.               *
nico		You let Salvano walk. AGENT NEELEY                          * Salvano?! Are you crazy? 
nico		I want the agent who signed for the explosives.
first girl		Fly, baby! 194   NICO
machete man		 No, hermano. Please --
nico		Who put up the money? MACHETE MAN What money?
machete man		I told ya!    No one! Nico slams him with a fierce shot to the ribs. The hood doubles over, gasping. The flower girls shriek even louder. Nico turns to the girls with a ferocious glare. NICO  Shut up! The girls instantly go silent in terror. Nico turns back to Machete Man, spins him violently face-down, jacking the punk's right arm straight out behind him. We see that Nico can break his elbow with one blow. NICO Give it to me! Nico raises his fist to strike.
machete man		Jimmy Constanza! Nico shoves the hood into the ground, tearing the hood's wallet from his trouser pocket. Nico rips the wallet a- part, seizes the kid's identification and holds it up. He grabs the punk by the hair with his free hand. Machete Man is staring up in terror, wondering what this means.
nico		If you're lying to me, I'll come and kill you right in your own fucking kitchen.
nico		Gracias, muchacho. Nico walks away.
nico		Of course I will. I've been waiting to hear from Jax. She was supposed to get back to me by now.
nico		 This better be good, Jax.
nico		 Long time, Nelson.
nico		He just wanted to make sure we got his Christmas card.
rosa		 Check that coat.
nico		 It's all a mistake, Sara -- It's                      * gonna be all right. The cops steer Nico toward the door.
nico		Where's Jackson?
cut to:		215   EXT. PHONE BOOTH ON DOWNTOWN STREET - DAWN
cut to:		216    EXT. STREET - NICO, JACKSON AND LUKICH - DAWN A mood of urgency. JACKSON -- I found the sanctuary people. 
jackson		Ready for this? One of the people killed at the church was definitely not a congregation member.
jackson		 I've been at the Tribune all night, wearing out their Xerox machine. Harrison's staff has been compiling some kind of white paper. He's due to release it next week. Nico's mind races.
nico		That's how Fox knew. JACKSON What?
nico		Luke. I  want you to go to my house.  Call Branca... my mother has the number. Get my family ready to move out. LUKICH You got it, buddy.
nico		Stay with 'em. We'll be there. LUKICH What's going on, Nico?   What happened? NICO I got a call last night. An old agency friend. He told me my family was in danger. Jax and Lukich can't put all the pieces together yet.    But if it's drugs-CIA-Senate, it's got to be heavy. LUKICH You got a weapon? Lukich knows he doesn't. He glances up and down the street, makes sure no one's watching -- then cracks the driver's door of his car. There's a bulge in the map pocket. Nico  pulls out a Sig Saur .45. LUKICH Try this on. Jackson watches Luke slip Nico a clip.                         * CUT TO:
sister bonifacia		There is rubble all over the yard, Nicola.
refugee woman		The other one.
sister bonifacia		He came alone... two weeks ago. He had papers. Papers to give to the senator.
nico		But the bomb... The bomb was planted to destroy the pulpit. SISTER BONIFACIA Father Tomassino was going to give the Mass that day.  Father Genarro talked him out of it.
refugee man		He run, mister. He go --
jackson		 You see this list? Well, I'm not done.
nico		 Just paperwork, you understand?
cut to:		219   INT. NICO'S CAR - MOVING - MORNING Nico drives, a jumble of emotions on his face.      Urgency fear, exhaustion. He's deep in thought --
nico		Over here, you sons-a-bitches! Nico's rage is superhuman. The men stare in conster- nation. One of the men has a fresh magazine half into his weapon --
nico		 Try it. Be my guest.
nico		 Sara...                                               *
nico		You'll be safe with Uncle Branca. It's gotta be this way... I'm sorry.
rosa		I know about babies. We glimpse other relatives in the hallway; Nico hands them a pair of suitcases; they hurry off -- SARA                                    *  We needed a vacation, anyway. Sara takes her suitcase, hurries out --                        *
nico		                                      * I'll give you five minutes start.    We have to do it this way. They get their suitcases into the sedan. Mama and the baby are already aboard. Sara gets into the passenger seat.       * Lukich comes around from the front, glancing around like a lookout. NICO Where's Jax?
lukich		She thinks there may be documents at some guy's apartment.
lukich		You're gonna need help. Nico grabs the pistols, starts to strap them on.
nico		Just stay with my family Nico replaces the piece of foundation, starts back up the steps.
lukich		What are you gonna do?
nico		You don't want to know. 248    EXT. ALLEY BEHIND NICO'S HOUSE
cut to:		252    EXT. PARKING LOT - DAY
nico		Keep walking --  -- I'm bucking for number one.
clerk		What can I do for you, lads? Neeley presents his ID.                                       *
clerk		Hell, that's gone. NICO When? CLERK Right away, pardner. They scooped that stuff outa here before we even got it tagged. NICO Who?    Who took it?
clerk		 We'd like to see the paperwork. The Clerk has an accordion file right under the counter. He indicates a sign-in book.
clerk		You gotta sign.
nico		Watch your step.
watanabe		So good to see you again, sir!  Come back near closing... five- thirty... we'll place your order then. Nico nods, fades like a shadow into the throng.     MUSIC DOWN, SEQUENCE ENDS --
dissolve to:		262   INT. CONVENTION CENTER - NIGHT
watanabe		Of course not. Just because you kept a few 'friendly' tribesmen from cutting my heart out and serving it up as Pad Thai? With a wink, Watanabe escorts Nico into a back area off the floor. Carpeted office dividers set off a small area, packed with super sophisticated computer equipment.
nico		The old Spook. CUT AWAY TO: 263   OMITTED & 264 265   INT. JACKSON'S APARTMENT - NIGHT Jackson has the Senator's aide's papers spread before her, cataloging them with interest. The PHONE RINGS. Jackson picks it up. JACKSON  -- where... where are you?
cut back to:		266   INT. WATANABE'S COMPUTER AREA - NIGHT
watanabe		-- No way to access Covert Ops directly. But Ornstein's at Princeton, he's got a database bigger than Langley --  If I can't crack that turkey's code, it's time to hang up my rock and roll shoes -- Nico watches Watanabe work.
watanabe		-- ah, here! Here's a little trap door. Let's see if we can wriggle up into --  '69 to '76, Cambodia, Laos. Operation Phoenix. Operation Green Mountain. Operaton Northstar. This is all Vang Pao, it's all heroin -- WATANABE You friend has found his metier.
nico		Run personnel retrievals on all these operations. I want the names of every company man who was on them.
watanabe		 Central American desk. Central American desk. Central --
nico		Thirty names from secret drug operations... and two-thirds of 'em are in Central America.  All right. Run these two names: Bautista Salvano and Ramon 'Chi Chi' Testamente.
watanabe		Those street dealers you were talking about? They're not gonna be in here. Nico gives her a look.    Watanabe starts punching keys.     * 270   CLOSE - COMPUTER SCREEN Official biographies of Salvano and Chi Chi come up. WATANABE  Recruited by agency, 1975. Trained Fort Benning, counter insurgency...
nico		 ... Listen. Can this thing tap into airlines? Reservations records --
watanabe		I can get you the ball scores, too. DISSOLVE TO:
nico		Five agents   from Central American desk. All trained   assassins. All arrived in Chicago in   the last week -- and none of them has   left. Nico grabs his coat, gulps a last swallow of coffee --
nico		Thanks, Wat. You finally may have done some good for your country. WATANABE Where are you going? NICO To find a priest.
cut to:		273   EXT. CONVENTION CENTER - NIGHT
jackson		The nun phoned me. She said two men had been sneaking around the church. She sounded scared --
jackson		There's more. I got the papers from that senator's aide's apartment. Everything Harrison's been working on. It's all at my place. CUT TO:
father tomassino		I tried.   But you killed him first.                * ZAGON Who told you about our plans?                       * FATHER TOMASSINO This is from confession. I tell no one.
zagon		You wouldn't lie to me, Father?   It's a sin.
father tomassino		I know what you are. I know what beasts you are.
zagon		I want to know who you told. FATHER TOMASSINO  ... and sometimes... to the ninos... 302   NICO'S POV - HALLWAY
zagon		 -- Can we kill him? If you told anyone, about our plans to kill the senator, we cannot do it. FATHER TOMASSINO Nadie.   Nadie. Nadie.                             * 305   NICO AND LUKICH IN HALLWAY O.S. we hear another ELEVATED TRAIN APPROACHING outside. Nico kicks the apartment door in! He and Lukich burst in, guns clutched two-handed. 306   QUICK CUTS
nico		Go!   Go! -- Simultaneously FIRING back through the kicked-in door, EMPTYING his GUN.
zagon		 Get him! Finish him!
nico		 -- Had to be a hero... another fucking hero. I'm sorry Jax. He reaches for a small calendar, looks at it.
nico		-- Senator... --  -- dumb fuck... think they're gonna let you put 'em outta business -- 327A   INT. EMERGENCY ROOM CORRIDOR - NIGHT
jackson		 You call Nico's goddamn Uncle and find out if he's heard anything.
lukich		 You just shutup and take it easy, pal.
branca		Jesus Christ!
nico		The motherfuckas got Jackson. BRANCA Lukich called. She's not dead. She's gonna make it. She was wearing a vest. Nico can't believe it. In spite of it all, life comes to him. A little smile... NICO That broad didn't trust me. CUT TO: 331   EXT. BRANCA'S SAFE HOUSE - POV FROM WINDOW - NIGHT
branca		It was picked up with your mail this afternoon.
branca		Don't worry, they're booked on an early plane. They'll be out of the country tomorrow.
rosa		 Enough of your humor. Sara clings to Nico's arm, tears in her eyes. Rosa               * crosses herself. Sara begins to weep. The doctor finishes.       * There's a long awkward moment. Then:
branca		 Leave them. Leave them alone.
quick dissolve to:		338   INT. FAMILY ROOM - LATER
sara		-- You've got to do it, Nico.    You know you have to. Whatever Sara is proposing, Nico is dead set against it.
rosa		Listen to her, Nicola.  Whatever you think of him, Federico is family. He is our family. Nico makes no response.   Instead, he lifts Julian, nuzzles him tenderly.
nico		Ever notice how clean babies smell? Like nothing in the world has touched them yet.
sara		If you won't go to him, I will. NICO  Don't push me like this -- Her eyes meet his -- loving, but desperate.
sara		Branca can put us on a plane -- but where can we fly to? Tibet? The moon? There's nowhere they can't find us.
nico		You don't know what the hell you're talking about. SARA I'm talking about everything I've learned from you in the past five years.
sara		Do you know why I love you? Do you know what it is about you that I've always loved?  Pride. It's what you have inside. You don't live the way other people live. You trust what you see as right and won't let anyone or anything make you stray from it.
nico		I don't have much time, Uncle.    So I must speak plainly. Larusso listens.   Nico waits for a beat.   Then:
nico		 -- For as long as I've been old enough to think, I've hated you and hated everything you stood for. Larusso takes this in without a flicker.
nico		I was so sure that you and I were on opposite sides of the fence... and that you and your people were destroying this country -- Nico pauses, glances away across the grounds.
nico		-- The most painful realization of my life was that the people I worked for and you are not far apart.  -- And there's not much difference between what you are and what I was. Larusso studies Nico a long moment.    Then takes Nico's elbow. * * 347   OMITTED                                                         * 348   NICO AND LARUSSO
frederico larusso		You know, of course, that this Senator Harrison will never live to make his speech tomorrow.  You know, too, that as long as this man... this torturer --
nico		Kurt Zagon.
frederico larusso		-- As long as this Zagon lives, nothing I can do will guarantee your family's safety.  'These are not men, these are animals.'
frederico larusso		Thank you, Mr. Carlucci. I trust you will give my love to my niece, Rosa. NICO I will do that, Mr. Larusso.  I hope you will be well.
branca		Take care of yourself, Nicola. CUT TO:
nico		 I was thinking of a mine on the roof. Remote-triggered, when the chopper comes in. FOX Roof's wired too.   Sensors every fifteen feet. Fox's finger rests ready on the trigger.
fox		You can turn now.   Slowly.   Slooowly... Nico turns. We see Fox clearly now. His boyish features have weathered since his "spook" days in Vietnam. There is grey in his hair now: he wears an expensive suit and is alone.
fox		I figured you'd do your recon from this building.
fox		Getting a bit of a tire. NICO  Your own tailor? FOX Hong Kong.
nico		You've gone a long way. Fox motions for Nico to dump his gun; Nico complies, dropping it gently into the briefcase. Nico takes half a step toward Fox. Fox shakes his head in warning.
fox		Uh uh.  Uhhh-uh...  I know what you can do when you get too close to a man. 367    CLOSEUP - NICO                                                  * NICO                                    * I don't believe you, Fox.                             * 367A   INT. BUILDING CORRIDOR - NIGHT                                  *
fox		If I wanted to cap you, I'd have saved myself this chit-chat. Make big points for me to bring in your scalp. I'd be White House material. NICO Is that what Zagon is?    One of your basement boys?
fox		Zagon's a rancher. 4000 acres in Costa Rica. Beautiful place.
nico		Bought with what -- opium from Cambodia?
fox		And a ton a week of coke from other places. NICO Which he funnels here through Salvano. With the Company getting its cut. FOX Legal tender.
nico		Still dodging appropriations committees, eh, Nelson?
fox		That's my job, Nico. They arrive at an elevator. FOX Keep your nose in the corner. When we get out, stay five paces ahead of me. Cross down to the garage. 367B   INT. LOWER CORRIDOR Nico and Fox emerge from the elevator. Nico lowers his hands from behind his head. Fox keeps his gun out of sight as he and Nico step past. 368    ELEVATOR BANK - NIGHT
nico		The Senator couldn't be bought, could he? He was gonna blow the lid off, so you cleared Zagon to frost him --
fox		Keep walking.
nico		But the priest found out somehow and ran here. You couldn't do the Senator's number 'till you knew if the priest had talked. So Zagon flew in with his little medical bag. Only by then I was in on it -- and you thought I might recognize his handiwork.
fox		I tried to warn you, old buddy. I knew you had wiretaps. and I knew you wouldn't let 'em go. NICO Only I was too dumb to crack it. I was so busy trying to figure a code, I didn't even recognize Zagon's voice. It's all crystal clear to Nico now. NICO So we kill our own senators now. FOX Why not?   The Romans did.
nico		 Are we the Romans?
fox		We're an empire too.
fox		Would you rather spoon borscht and quote Lenin?  I'm trying to save you, asshole! I got a spot for you. Thailand, deep under, no names, no numbers --
nico		Doing what -- processing heroin?
fox		You 'consult.' You 'assist.' You send checks to your family. Zagon won't touch you, you'll be on the team --
nico		Fuck you. FOX In five years you're out, with a fat Swiss account and a GS-15 pension. Nico stares at his old friend with contempt. He sees the gun under Fox's coat, but he's too tired and too disgusted to care --
nico		You know, Fox, right now in Israel they're trying some 80-year-old camp guard for war crimes. And all around our country there are guys on Death Row for killing one person, two people. And probably they all deserve it -- He takes a step toward Fox.   Fox's hand tightens on his gun. NICO  Viet. Lao. Thai. Cambodian. Librarians, teachers, doctors... women, children... and that's just a sliver of it. Fox tries to maintain a hard face.   But his own guilty conscience is working --
nico		 We've wiped out entire fucking countries. And not one agent --
fox		 Stop right there!
nico		 WILL BE MODIFIED TO CONFORM TO LOCATION. DO NOT BUILD OR PURCHASE WITHOUT CHECKING WITH STUNT COORDINATOR AND ASSISTANT DIRECTORS. STORYBOARDS AND NEW PAGES WILL BE AVAILABLE NEXT WEEK. 371   A BIG CAR                                                      * SCREECHES to a halt in front of them. Five men dismount        * swiftly. Salvano, Bad Dude, and two agent types from the       * tenement... and Zagon!                                         * Zagon and his men are forty feet from Nico and Fox, playing it cool so as not to alarm any innocent bystanders, but the bulk under their jackets is unmistakably guns.
nico		Well... well.    What a team we have here. ZAGON  We've been looking for you, Nelson.    I see you've found our friend.
nico		Thanks for the help, Fox.
fox		I didn't bring him, Nico.    I swear it! ZAGON Have you two been sharing fond memories? Reminiscing about the good old days?
fox		Stay still!  Don't fucking move!!
zagon		Bring in our friend, Nelson. Salvano's muzzle covers Fox and Nico --
zagon		Be a good boy -- 372   FOX
zagon		We've got an hour before the honorable senator.  You've got to learn to take time, smell the roses.
zagon		I've used these little beauties many times to extract information --  -- This'll be the first time I've ever used them... just for fun.
zagon		Hold him up! Pistol agent and Bad Dude lift Nico. Zagon slams him again. Again. Nico's cheekbone is broken; blood drains from his nose. Zagon aims a two-handed blow; backhands Nico, crushing the other side of his face! Zagon backs off, chest heaving. Pistol agent and Bad Dude plop Nico back in the chair, gagging, choked by the noose. Nico looks like the Viet prisoner -- the one we saw in the opening sequence. Like the prisoner, Nico takes his beating -- still conscious, still meeting Zagon's eyes with defiance.
zagon		This is where you came in, Toscani. Only, now it's where you're gonna check out. He takes off his glove, grabs the syringe. Pistol agent and Bad Dude clamp Nico's right arm down tight. Zagon injects Nico.
zagon		Fight it. Till the vessels burst in your brain. Till the arteries rupture in your heart --
zagon		That's my boy. That's what I was waiting for -- Zagon produces his famous knife. He motions Pistol agent and Bad Dude to release Nico's arms. Noose agent slackens his grip on the choke cable. Zagon moves in closer, gloating, cooing --
zagon		A fool learns from his own mistakes. But a wise man learns from the mistakes of others --  You should have killed me when you had the chance, Toscani --
lukich		 Is there a hotel doctor?    Call 911!
fade out.		FADE IN ON:
senator harrison		Detective Toscani. I wanted to personally thank you. You are making it possible for a sliver of truth to finally come out.
senator harrison		And this is Clayton Alspaugh of the fifth circuit court. NICO Your Honor. The Judge nods to his stenographer, who swiftly sets up her equipment, takes a seat. Rosa makes a face at Branca, who rises, clearing a seat for the Judge. Sara moves              * in tight beside Nico. JUDGE ALSPAUGH Are you sure you're feeling well enough? Nico glances to Sara, to the supporting faces around              * him. Lukich. Neeley. Strozah. Jackson. The others.                * NICO  If you're ready to listen, I'm ready to talk. 423   CLOSE - STENOGRAPHER'S HANDS As the Judge's VOICE begins OVER, "slating" the depo- sitions, the stenographer's fingers start moving. PULL BACK TO: 424   ANGLE FROM OUTSIDE ROOM
the end		 THIS SCRIPT WAS PREPARED BY WARNER BROS. INC. SCRIPT PROCESSING DEPARTMENT  954-4632
****Dialogues from script :absolute_power.txt****

for educational		PURPOSES ONLY
girl student		Don't give up.
luther		I never do.
girl student		May I?
girl student		You work with your hands, don't you?
luther		 Redhead.
red		Luther.  Your life would be a whole lot simpler if you could learn to operate a V.C.R.
luther		My only failing.
christy		 It's okay -- I told him I was sick -- anyway, he's gone -- relax...
christy		 You fucking bastard.
richmond		 You little whore --
richmond		Kill her?
burton		No choice in the matter.
burton		Jesus, Tim, what did we do?
collin		 No choice in the matter.
russell		 Go on -- tell me.
collin		Nothing to tell. He screamed.
russell		And you heard no sounds of violence 'til then?
burton		 Nothing we haven't heard before.
burton		Maybe I should call the police now.
russell		 Think... real... fucking... hard.
burton		 Probably not a good idea.
russell		 Okay -- here's what happened tonight -- poor Christy came home alone and interrupted a burglary. That sound logical?
russell		We're going to have to sanitize this place.  Alan, did you have sex with her?
richmond		... Don'... 'member...
russell		Bill, you're going to have to examine her.
burton		I'm no gynecologist.
russell		 I just made you one.
russell		I'll take that.
collin		 It's got their prints on it.
russell		 Thanks for sharing.
richmond		Gloria -- I killed her --
russell		It's all going to be fine, Alan.
richmond		... But she's dead...
russell		... I'll take care of everything just like I always do.  Gentlemen?
collin		Shit.
burton		What?
burton		Shit!
collin		Shit!
collin		 I got his license number.
russell		 -- You may have buried us! --
collin		-- relax, I got his license number, remember? --
russell		 -- you think he's going to just sit around waiting for us? -- Asshole --
collin		-- take it easy, Miss Russell --
burton		 -- everybody shut up, all right?
burton		Oh boy...
russell		 A two-way mirror.
collin		-- I better get cracking on that license number --
russell		 -- it's all we've got -- and he's got the letter opener -- blood, fingerprints -- Jesus, think what he can do --
red		Jordan beat us at the buzzer.
luther		Bad night.
luther		Kate.  Kate.
luther		Probably too late for me to take it up.
luther		The jogging.
luther		Dumb way to start this, I guess.
luther		Wanted to talk to you.
kate		About?
luther		Believe it or not, the weather.  Nights are starting to get cold.
kate		That happens this time of year.
luther		I was thinking of maybe relocating. Someplace with a kinder climate.  ... you're the only family I've got.
kate		Luther, you don't have me.
luther		Kate --
kate		-- you know what it's like being the only kid in show and tell who got to talk about visiting day?
luther		This move -- I'm talking permanent, you understand.
kate		We don't see each other anyway -- we haven't seen each other since Mom died and that's a year.  Look, you chose your life. You had that right. You were never around for me. Fine. But I have no plans to be around for you.
kate		 -- wait a minute -- you're lying about something, aren't you? --
luther		-- no --
kate		-- are you active again? -- is that why you're here now?
luther		-- no --
kate		-- I don't believe you --  -- Christ, Father, what have you done?
seth		Christy Sullivan?
medical examiner		 Wife of Walter -- most likely came home and stumbled onto a burglary --
laura simon		I wish my carpets were this clean. And I can't find a single decent                        * fingerprint.
seth		You serious, Laura?
laura simon		 It's like Mary Poppins was here.
seth		Could someone have let him in?
laura simon		Sorry, Seth, but the entire Sullivan household went to Barbados two days ago.
seth		Thank you for your support.
laura simon		Wait -- it gets worse --  -- she was killed where she is -- all the blood patterns indicate that. But she was looking toward the bed -- what in hell was she looking at?
laura simon		Looks like someone sat here -- but I couldn't find any prints.  You think Sullivan holed up in the chair and watched his wife perform?
seth		I hope not --  -- he's such a great man.
seth		 Careful digging that out.
medical examiner		Looks like he tried to strangle her.
seth		So he tried to strangle her, then went to the door and shot her from behind?
medical examiner		He also inspected her vagina.
seth		He did what?   Why?
laura simon		Maybe he couldn't remember if he fucked her.
seth		 A strong burglar with a weak mind -- obviously another open and shut case...
seth		Mr. Sullivan? -- I'm Seth Frank, senior homicide detective for Middleton County --
sandy lord		 -- my client is in no mood for conversation, sir.
walter sullivan		It's all right, Sandy --  -- you're in charge of the case?
seth		 I have to ask some questions, but it can be tomorrow.
walter sullivan		You want what, positive identification? Yes, that was my wife. Anything else?
seth		 You'd been in Barbados for two days?
walter sullivan		 I took the entire staff down -- always do this time of year.
seth		But Mrs. Sullivan didn't come.
walter sullivan		She was, had it all planned, but you know women, they change their minds. 
sandy lord		I think that's enough for today.
seth		 I have to ask about the vault.
walter sullivan		You mean the contents of the vault of course --  Really. Go to the reception -- obviously I can't make it, but I'm sure everyone will understand.
walter sullivan		I know it's not the contents --  You mean the chair. You have to ask about the chair.
seth		 Yessir, I do.
walter sullivan		But why?   Are they connected?
seth		I think someone sat in it -- and I think that someone may have been involved in the murder.  You were my father's hero, Mr. Sullivan, I promise you this won't make my highlight reel.
walter sullivan		I'd hoped I could satisfy her... but you know... she had needs and she didn't want to go behind my back... she suggested the chair... she hoped I might get to like sitting there...  I've tried for eighty years to live a decent life. I've given a billion dollars to charity. If this comes to trial, none of that will be remembered -- I'll just go out as the joke of the world.
seth		I understand, sir; I'll do what I can.
walter sullivan		 And I'll do mine.
sandy lord		Mr. President.
richmond		Take a walk with me.
richmond		Tell me about Walter -- how is he?
sandy lord		Eighty and alone, Mr. President.
richmond		He understands officially my hands are tied?
sandy lord		Mr. President, he's touched at your concern.
richmond		Any news of the killer?  Well, why isn't there? Who's in charge of the case?
sandy lord		Top man -- eight years homicide work in New York. But I understand how you feel -- it's hard to be patient.
richmond		 No one understands how I feel -- I'm supposed to have all this power but I can't help my oldest friend -- you know and I know that more than any man alive Walter Sullivan put me here -- and now when he most needs me, he must feel abandoned.
richmond		-- I'll hold a press conference -- and I'll have Walter come -- and I will embrace him before the world.
sandy lord		He'll treasure that, Mr. President. What a generous gesture. Thank you. Thank you.
richmond		 Damn tennis elbow is killing me.
richmond		 This thing's worse, Gloria. I need to see a doctor.
russell		The country would have to be informed, Mr. President.
richmond		What happened to my right to privacy?  I think she nicked a tendon.
russell		Burton says it's a flesh wound --
richmond		 -- when did you become such an expert, Bill? -- Ever been wounded? --
burton		 Yes, sir. Many times.
russell		Are you serious about that press conference, Alan?
richmond		Of course I am -- Walter's been like a father to me.
russell		Shall I bring Mrs. Richmond home for it?
richmond		I think Mrs. Richmond's mission to help the poor in Asia should not be interrupted.  We know anything yet?
russell		We checked his license plate -- he stole the car from a police impoundment lot.
richmond		We're not dealing with a fool here.  Has he initiated contact?
russell		Burton doesn't think he will.
richmond		I agree.  Sorry about my behavior -- won't happen again; think of it as a blip on the screen. And as far as I'm concerned, so is he.
russell		He could be a little more than that, Alan -- he saw.
richmond		He saw nothing -- a drunk woman who liked rough sex too much. And he's a burglar. Who's going to believe him?  After all, it's not as if he had evidence or anything...
valerie		 You always did disappear good, Luther.
luther		You mean I've got a weak face. Thanks, Val.
valerie		You're lucky is all -- some of my customers, they stand out no matter what.
valerie		How many passports you need?
luther		 Four should cover it.
valerie		 Now you'll want different looks, and matching international driver's licenses -- I'll throw in some dummy credit cards, seeing it's you. How the rugs I made you holding up?
luther		They're good. Beards and mustaches, too.
valerie		 I try to give value for money. Leaving the country permanent?
luther		It may come to that.
valerie		Matter where you've been? -- I hate doing those goddam Asian passport stamps.
luther		Europe's fine. Maybe the Caribbean for winters. When can I pick up?
valerie		Usually takes some time, but for you, I'll rush it.
luther		Thanks, Val. I've always been able to count on you.
luther		What?
valerie		I don't want to know what you're into, but leaving forever...
luther		Finish it.
valerie		I never figured you for a runner -- thirty percent of my runners kill themselves within five years.
luther		 Five years doesn't sound so bad to me just now.
seth		See if any of this makes sense.
seth		I am Christy Sullivan and I walk in and surprise a burglar.
laura		Now you're the burglar coming out of the vault and being surprised.
seth		Gold star.  I draw my gun --
laura		 -- then why do you bother to strangle her when you could just shoot?
seth		That's nothing -- why do I bother to have her strip and then put her clothes back on?
laura		There I can help you -- see, before you were a burglar you were a dry cleaner and you still love beautiful clothes.
seth		And I dress her because?
laura		She was a good customer and you didn't want her embarrassed when the police came.
seth		She had a point-21 blood alcohol level. -- she was too drunk to drive. I've checked every cab and limo company in the area and not one of them knows anything. Someone drove her home. Goddamit, who? And why haven't they come forward?
laura		Maybe whoever drove her home killed her.
seth		You saying the burglar drove her home?  I hate this case.
telephone repairman		Lieutenant? -- sorry to bother you --  I've got your phone working again, shouldn't give you any more trouble.
seth		Good service, thanks.
telephone repairman		 Part of the job.
seth		Oh yeah    -- remember that bullet hole in    the wall? Had the lab dig out the    slug -- guess what -- no slug --    why does the burglar take the time    to do that?
laura		Different from the one in her body? 
seth		 And oh, by the way, why does he -- or they -- go out the window in the first place when he -- or they -- got in by breaking a zillion- dollar security system? --
seth		 What?
cop		 A Bill Burton of the Secret Service in the parking lot.
seth		 Did I mention that I hate this case? I really truly hate this case -- you cannot imagine how much I hate it --
burton		 Bill Burton, hi --
seth		-- hi, Seth Frank --
burton		-- I know you must be going crazy -- but the boss is very interested in your progress. Maybe we can help each other.
seth		What did you have in mind?
burton		You know how close he and Sullivan are?  Here are my numbers.
burton		 Leads?
seth		Still trying to figure out what might have happened --
burton		-- I loved playing Sherlock Holmes.
seth		 You Secret Service guys do that?
burton		I was State Trooper here ten years ago before the Government got me.
seth		You're that Bill Burton.
burton		I was younger and dumber then.  Keep in touch.
walter sullivan		 The chef makes them especially for me -- I promise you they're sinful.
walter sullivan		This is a new arena for me, but from what I'm told, you have a flawless reputation, Mister McCarty -- which is why I need to employ you.
walter sullivan		I have no idea who I'm after. Until I do, you will have to wait in Washington for instructions.
walter sullivan		When I was 10 my father died -- he was a miner and lung disease killed him. I became rich at 25 and the first thing I did was purchase that mine, close it, and give every miner there fifty thousand dollars to retire on.  And, when the time comes, two million dollars a bullet.
walter sullivan		Selling sin is easy...
laura		 Who is he?
seth		Luther Whitney --  -- one of the great thieves of the world.
seth		Been going nuts with this thing, up all night and I remembered your notion how it might be two burglars, and around dawn I thought, wait, what if it wasn't two burglars but what if it was one guy trying to throw us off by making it look like two?  -- but Whitney's the only one lives in Washington.
laura		Why haven't I ever heard of him?
seth		Because he hasn't been arrested in thirty years.
laura		 This his graduation picture from Harvard?
laura		 Seth -- we can make this stick -- I'll bet you anything this is our guy -- a local? -- can't ask for more --
seth		Whitney hasn't killed anyone in 45 years.
seth		Korea.
laura		Big deal, so he's a veteran.
seth		Not just a veteran -- a wounded veteran.                                             * And I don't do war heroes...                             *
luther		 Boy, you must be smart.
seth		 Sorry?
luther		Usually takes a week for you guys to get to me.  You look just like your picture, Seth. I'm Luther Whitney.
luther		So, do you want my confession now or after coffee?
seth		 Before I send you away for life, I should probably check out your alibi.
luther		Watched the Bullets game    with Red Bransford. Prison buddy     of mine -- runs a bar -- want to    question me about the game? I'm     probably lying.
seth		You been following the case?
luther		 I love true crime --
seth		-- F.B.I. feels only a few guys could have handled something as hard as the Sullivan job.  I've got a list here; you're on it.
luther		 If only I could do stuff like that -- I'd be the star of my A.A.R.P. meetings.
seth		 Luther? Why was this so hard?
luther		You want me to help solve your case?
seth		Just looking   for insight. How would you --   scratch that -- how would one go   about it? What kind of person do   you think I should be looking for?
luther		 Older fella. Like me.
seth		 Because?
luther		Need patience. The secret is just research, research, research -- from everything I've read.
seth		Research for what?
luther		Well, from what I can tell on the tube, it's not a small house.  There had to be an architect, right? You'd be able to tell which one from public records in the library. And once you know the office, you could break in and find the plans and Xerox them, get them back before morning.
seth		Not just steal them?
luther		Seth -- breaking in isn't hard -- what's hard is breaking in so no one knows you've been there. Now, after the architect, next you'd want the contractor's office -- and the security company's office.  I wonder how those guys do it?
seth		Why go to all that trouble?
luther		Papers said he kept the money in a vault, yes?  Well, I'm guessing there was probably some secret way to open it --
seth		 -- clicker --
luther		 -- explain --
seth		-- gizmo -- looked like a V.C.R. remote --
luther		 -- must have been a lot of money inside.
seth		 Five million.
seth		Why's that funny?
luther		The way you said it -- as if you were trying to surprise me.
seth		 I was trying to surprise you.
luther		 There you go.
seth		Would the burglar use a disguise?
luther		Seth, you've got to get with the program you expect to catch this guy -- most likely it is a guy, am I right? Some kind of weird loner?
seth		Maybe like you.
luther		 But you see any face often enough, you'll start putting things together. That's why these top guys disguise themselves. I read a great article a couple of years back -- damn, I wish I could remember where -- anyway, it was about these makeup experts some of them use -- wigmakers, people like that.
seth		 Go on about the wigmakers.
luther		 -- all this excitement, you understand.
seth		 I'll be back tomorrow.
luther		Tomorrow is promised to no one.
luther		Not 'til morning?  -- I'll be by early --
luther		 Katie darling, you've gotta try real food sometime.
richmond		... it is here, at this courthouse,                  * that Christine Sullivan's killer will be tried for his crime.
luther		Turn that off, okay?
bartender		 In a sec.
richmond		As you know, I came from an impoverished family in an impoverished town -- but we lived with our doors unlocked.
richmond		We are locking our hearts to the cries of the weary, we are locking our hearts to the poor and their pain...
luther		 Put it back on.
bartender		 You said --
luther		 Do it --
luther		You -- heartless -- prick --  -- you -- fucking -- bastard --
luther		 I'm going to bring you down...
russell		He was in the building -- he took a guided tour.
russell		I've never dealt with blackmail --
burton		 -- he doesn't want money --
russell		 -- you a mind reader too?                               *
burton		 -- see? --
russell		 'I don't want money.'
luther		 This guy sure has the guts of a burglar. Wish we had him.
russell		You finished your recruiting speech? Because I'd like to know how I handle this.
burton		Like you handled the letter opener?
russell		Gee, Bill, that could be construed as criticism. Do you really want me as an enemy?
burton		Miss Russell, I should have called the police that night. But I was weak. You convinced me to stay silent. I regret that.  Know this: every time I see your face I want to rip your throat out.
russell		Fine -- you win the pissing contest --  -- what should I do?
burton		Nothing -- because he's making a terrible mistake, he thinks he has time -- he doesn't -- Seth Frank's too good. He'll bring him in.
russell		Then what?
collin		 Then I kill him.
seth		 For a tough prosecutor, you don't resemble your reputation, Miss Whitney.
seth		What would you do if I just turned around and left?
kate		Report you as an incompetent.
seth		 You're exactly like your reputation, Miss Whitney --
seth		 I'm assuming your father's a big part of you --
kate		-- what? --
seth		-- You think it's all coincidence? He's a thief and you just happen to be the toughest prosecutor in the area?
kate		 Wow -- that never crossed my mind -- you think there might be some connection? -- Like maybe I'm somehow compensating? -- I better write that down.
seth		-- Luther disappeared.
seth		I think you can help me.
kate		Lieutenant -- I don't know the man -- he was in jail when I was a kid, when he got out my mother and I went off to live by ourselves. We don't make contact. He doesn't care about me. I've seen him all of once this past year.
seth		When?
kate		Couple days ago. He said he might be going away. There. I just helped you. Can I go back to work now?
seth		 Any idea where he might have gone?
kate		 Quit wasting my time -- if he doesn't want you to find him, you're not going to find him.
seth		You saying he's left town, skipped the country, what?
kate		I'm saying you won't recognize him. I'm saying he could be just around the corner -- he always kept a safe house --
seth		 -- where? --
kate		He never said --
seth		-- Then where'd you hear this?
kate		-- my mother loved him, all right? -- Even after she left him -- even when she was dying she always talked about him -- 'If only he hadn't this,' 'if only he could have that' --
seth		And?
kate		I meet a lot of asshole cops like you -- guys who O.D.'d on Columbo --
seth		-- Lady, I may be an asshole cop but you don't know me well enough to call me one --
kate		-- There's something else, isn't there? Something you want me to do? -- But you won't say ---
kate		How long did he live here?
seth		Years.
kate		Never been.
seth		Strange place for a thief to leave a key, don't you think?
kate		 He always did that...
seth		He sure took off in a hurry. What scares a professional thief like that?
kate		 ... I used to think... sometimes I'd come home and I'd sense he'd been in my apartment, checking the fridge, shaking his head because he never thought I ate right... It's crazy but I just knew Daddy was watching over me...
seth		You can do a good thing, Kate --  -- help me bring him in. Just leave a message on his phone machine, you're worried about him.
kate		... No...
seth		It's the truth -- you are worried about him -- this isn't your normal case -- his life may be in danger -- you can save him, make the call --
kate		... He won't come...
seth		 Of course he'll come. You're all he has.
seth		 Kate, he's on the run   and he's scared and he's right   to be scared because he's going to   get caught -- you don't know the   heat on this.                *
kate		I left a message on his machine, he called back within an hour; we're meeting tomorrow afternoon.
seth		Where?
luther		I need to look really good today.
salesman		Business?  Never too late, is it?
luther		You got that right.
burton		The Boss is very grateful. Thanks.
seth		Figured he'd    like an eyewitness report of the    capture. This is our guy -- if    he's innocent, he sure took off    awful fast.
seth		 Fuck...
waiter		Miss?  What you want please?
kate		Nothing, thank you.
waiter		Got to.
kate		Pardon?
waiter		 You sit you eat please.
seth		This is not part of my brilliant master plan.
burton		Unfuckingbelievable.
kate		 I'm waiting for someone.
waiter		He must eat too, please.
kate		Oh he will, we both will -- we'll order half the menu -- but just not now --
waiter		Cheesecake gone.
kate		Thank you so much.
luther		I did not kill that woman, Kate.
kate		 Messy.
seth		I like that in a woman.
seth		Top number's local police --  I live alone, too, call anytime. Want me to get someone to spend the night?
kate		I just need some sleep.
seth		I've got surveillance outside. And I'm keeping it on 'til this is over. I've got a feeling he's going to try and contact you.
kate		You're on a hot streak, I guess.
seth		Listen, I'm sorry.
seth		Anything unusual, call me right away -- not a bother, I live alone.
kate		You said.
seth		 Feeble, huh?
kate		Anything for the road?     I've got water and water.
seth		Deal.
seth		Pelligrino would be great.  What's funny, I say it wrong?
kate		Tired is all.
seth		I don't think I've told you this, but I live alone.  Lock it behind me.
kate		 How's that?
kate		 I betrayed you, Luther. You better know that now.
kate		Why'd you come?
luther		You have to know I'm not a murderer.
kate		No, this afternoon. To the restaurant. Why'd you come then? You must have suspected something, or you wouldn't have been prepared.
luther		 My daughter wanted to see me.
luther		The robbery went fine 'til they came in. They were drunk. I hid in the vault. Sex got rough. He was going to kill Christy, but she turned the tables, was going to kill him. Two guys came in, shot her dead.
kate		The same two guys who tried for you this afternoon?
luther		Probably only one of them. I think Walter Sullivan might have hired the other.
kate		Pretty powerful enemy; good going.
luther		Not as powerful as the President of the United States.
luther		Richmond was drunk. The two guys are Secret Service. Chief of Staff Russell planned the coverup.
luther		Every word true.
kate		You're saying you're innocent of the murder? Why in the world                               * should I believe you?
luther		Because I swear on Mattie's grave.
luther		On your mother's grave, Kate -- you know I'd kill myself before I'd lie about that.
kate		 Jesus, Luther.
luther		I know.
kate		They'll kill you.
luther		I know.
kate		Can you run?
luther		I was set to. At the airport. All the money I'd ever need.
luther		But I saw that bastard using                             * Sullivan on the T.V. -- maybe I couldn't have saved that woman, Kate. But I didn't even try.  -- haven't been to each other. And it's not the time to try and explain my life --
luther		-- but I've never robbed anyone couldn't afford it and I've never stiffed a waitress.  And Alan Richmond has to pay.
kate		What can you do?
luther		Not much, maybe -- but I only went to jail when I had partners. 
luther		This is probably it; you understand that.  I was never going to tell you this, but I watched you argue a case last year -- thank God you got your brains from your mother.
kate		It's dangerous outside.
luther		It always is --  -- but I'm not going down alone...
doorman		 Want me to sign anything?
luther		 I trust you.
richmond		 You're a vision this evening, Miss Russell.
russell		Thank you, Mr. President.  And thank you, Mr. President.
richmond		 Come again?
russell		 You sent it to me this afternoon.
richmond		Well, of course.  Excuse me, all -- I am overcome with the desire to dance with my Chief of Staff. * A hand to her -- Russell, beaming, moves out onto the dance floor with him.
richmond		What is this nonsense? I'm hoping there's an explanation.
russell		 Your gift, Alan -- I was overwhelmed -- and your note was so gratifying --
richmond		 -- I sent a note?
russell		Yes, yes, you think I don't know your writing? I assumed you wanted me to wear it tonight.
richmond		It is lovely, Gloria -- and you know what else?
russell		What, Alan?
richmond		Christy Sullivan wore it the night                          * she was killed.                                             *
richmond		You realize what this means? Whitney's been heard from.
russell		It's not precisely the first time, Mr. President. * The MUSIC is BUILDING TO CLIMAX now.       Their movements become more grand.
richmond		 You've been keeping things from me?
russell		Only because you have so much on your plate, Alan; we wanted to spare you.  He sent me a Polaroid of the letter opener yesterday.
richmond		Well, now --  This will certainly make for an interesting chapter in my memoirs.
burton		 What are you doing?
collin		 Needed a pen.
burton		 -- you don't trust me? --
collin		 -- I don't answer to you, asshole --
russell		You're both assholes, now move --
richmond		 Any idea who could have forged it?
burton		I talked to Seth Frank -- apparently Whitney learned how in prison.
richmond		Very gifted man.
richmond		And are we close to stopping him?
russell		We're working round the clock.
richmond		Good to know that.
burton		He'll make a mistake.
richmond		Good to know that too.
richmond		There is one other thing you'll want to take care of.
burton		You're sure you want to do that?
richmond		 Show you love your country.
super		 Sorry, Miss Whitney, but this thing's giving us a little trouble.
seth		Where are you?
luther		I'm not staying on long enough for you to track this, just answer me.
seth		She couldn't be in better hands -- talk about catching a break, Secret Service called me. They're taking over surveillance --
super		Got it working fine, Miss Whitney.
luther		 ... Kate...?
luther		Scream. Go on. Which do you want most, for me to kill you or life in jail forever?
luther		Going to guess this wasn't to pep her up.
collin		 ... you're not going to kill me...
luther		... why do you think that...?
collin		... you could have but you didn't...
luther		That's because you didn't know your crime, prick.
luther		 -- but you fucked with blood.
collin		... mercy...
luther		I'm fresh out.
luther		... go to sleep, honey...
luther		I need one answer -- when you interviewed Walter Sullivan, did he say why Christy didn't go to Barbados?
seth		 You know who did it, don't you?
luther		So will you -- check your phones --
seth		 -- who'd tap a police officer?
walter sullivan		Is this a shortcut, Tommy?                              *
chauffeur		 I'm your replacement driver for the evening, sir. Don't worry, Tommy's fine.                                            *
walter sullivan		Very unusual -- what do I call you?
luther		Luther, sir.
walter sullivan		And are you familiar with how to get to my home, Luther?
luther		I know the way, sir -- I'm the man who robbed you --
luther		-- and you're the man who tried to have me killed --
walter sullivan		-- I'm sorry I missed -- I believe in the Old Testament, sir -- there is nothing wrong with an eye for an eye when a terrible deed has been done.  A deed such as yours.
luther		You want to believe that, don't you? -- Makes your life a lot simpler if you believe that, isn't that right?  What do you think I gain being here?
walter sullivan		Have no idea -- you going to rob me again? --
luther		I don't need your money, Mr. Sullivan. Look in your vault lately?
walter sullivan		 I'm afraid we're a little late for an attempt at leniency.
luther		Shit's coming down tonight, Mr. Sullivan, do you want to be a player or not?  Do you want to know what happened, or not? I saw. Your call.
walter sullivan		 I want to know.
luther		Are you up to hearing about it? -- Do you want to hear how he beat the shit out of her and tried to strangle her -- you have enough left for that? --
walter sullivan		 -- I could walk through fire --
luther		I was in the chair when they came in.  They were drunk -- at first he only wanted to bruise her -- she fought back, he went for the kill -- she turned the tables. Then he screamed for help.
walter sullivan		Who else was in my house?
luther		Secret Service shot her.
walter sullivan		 Nonsense.
luther		Gloria Russell handled the cover up.
walter sullivan		Stop this --
luther		-- don't you want to know who the man was?
walter sullivan		 It was you.
luther		We're too old to bullshit each other, Mr. Sullivan.
walter sullivan		 Who was it then?
luther		 You know!
luther		You fucking well do, don't shake your head at me -- when you're alone at night, when the rage takes you and you think of what you'd do to revenge her, on those nights you put a face to your enemy.
walter sullivan		 Stop the car --
luther		-- we're going all the way, Walter --
walter sullivan		-- it's too terrible.
luther		It sure is.
walter sullivan		... I know about Alan's reputation as a philanderer... but... he would never dream of betraying me... I gave him the Presidency.
walter sullivan		That's not real proof.
luther		And this?
walter sullivan		You could have stolen this.
luther		I did steal it. But that isn't my blood and those aren't my prints.
walter sullivan		 I did love her, you know.
walter sullivan		Is he working late? I haven't an appointment but I'd like to see him if I might.
guard		You don't need an appointment, Mr. Sullivan.
kate		... you're still here...?
luther		Haven't budged.
kate		 ... was that Seth...?
luther		He was just checking in. When you're up to it, he said we might come over for dinner. He                                     * mentioned --                                                 *
kate		 I know, he lives alone --                                    *
luther		 Watch it now.
kate		... you don't have to fuss...
luther		You were forever catching colds.
kate		... am I going to be all right?....
luther		 We'll be fine.
****Dialogues from script :adaptation.txt****

british narrator		As natural selection works solely by and for the good of each being, all corporeal and mental endowments will tend to progress towards perfection.
british narrator		It is interesting to contemplate an entangled bank, clothed with many plants of many kinds, with birds singing...
russell		Laroche is asleep at the wheel.
randy		Crazy White Man is now Drowsy White Man.
orlean		Two years ago I went to Florida to meet Laroche after reading a small article about a white man and three Seminole men arrested with rare orchids they'd stolen out of a place called the...
tony		We got a Seminole, or Seminoles, in the swamp. I'm on Janes Scenic Drive just east of Logging Road Twelve. I repeat, Indians in the swamp.
radio voice		I don't know what you want me to say.
tony		Barry, Indians do not go on swamp walks. If there are Indians in the swamp, they are in there for a reason.
valerie		We think you're just great.
kaufman		 Oh, thank you.
valerie		And we're thrilled you're interested.
kaufman		Oh, thanks, wow. That's nice to hear.
valerie		You have a really unique voice.
kaufman		Well, thanks. That's... I appreciate that.
valerie		Very talented. Really.
kaufman		Thanks.   Thank you.   Thanks.
valerie		 So --
kaufman		Sort of hot in here.
valerie		 Yeah, it is a bit. So, why don't you tell me your thoughts on this crazy little project of ours.
kaufman		First, I think it's a great book.
valerie		Laroche is a fun character, isn't he?
kaufman		And Orlean makes orchids so fascinating. Plus her musings on Florida, orchid poaching. Indians. Great, sprawling New Yorker stuff. I'd want to remain true to that, let the movie exist rather than be artificially plot driven.
valerie		Okay, great, great. I guess I'm not exactly sure what that means.
kaufman		Oh. Well... I'm not sure exactly yet either. So... y'know, it's...
valerie		Oh.    Okay.     Great.   So, um, what --
kaufman		It's just, I don't want to compromise by making it a Hollywood product. An orchid heist movie. Or changing the orchids into poppies and turning it into a movie about drug running. Y'know?
valerie		Oh, of course. We agree.        Definitely.
kaufman		Or cramming in sex, or car chases, or guns. Or characters learning profound life lessons. Or characters growing or characters changing or characters learning to like each other or characters overcoming obstacles to succeed in the end. Y'know? Movie shit.
valerie		See, we thought maybe Susan Orlean and Laroche could fall in love during the course of --
kaufman		Alienated journalist writes about passionate backwoods guy and he teaches her to love. I mean, it didn't happen, it wouldn't happen. It's Hollywood.
kaufman		So anyway I just wanted to stop by to congratulate you on your promotion.
margaret		Well, thanks again.   It's all so stupid.
kaufman		I think it's great. Your photo in the trades and everything. Pretty cool.
margaret		Anyway.    Yeah. So what's up with you?
kaufman		I'm considering jobs. Mostly crap. There's one you might like, about flowers.
margaret		Flowers?   Really? What is it?
kaufman		They want me to do an adaptation of a book called The Orchid Thief.
margaret		Oh my God! You're kidding?    I read that! I loved that book!
kaufman		I loved the book.
margaret		Oh, Charlie, orchids are the most amazing flowers. So complex.
kaufman		I know.   They're really great.
margaret		You should take this job. Doesn't it sound exciting, to immerse yourself in a real subject and learn everything about it? Blake wrote about seeing heaven in a wild flower. And after you learn all this stuff, you can teach me!
kaufman		 That'd be fun.
margaret		God, they're such beautiful flowers.    And so sexy. Y'know?  Did you know that orchid means --
kaufman		Testicle.     I just read that.
margaret		 Testicle! Can you believe it!
laroche		Pseudemys floridana. Did you fellas know you fellas believe the world rests on the back of a turtle? Not you fellas specifically. Although, maybe you fellas specifically. That I can't speak to.
kaufman		...plus I love the idea of learning all about orchids. I really admire those guys who know everything about ants or fungus or whatever. I'd like to be more like that. See, I tend to write self- involved, self-loathing... even masturbatory stuff. VALERIE And it's wonderful, by the way.
kaufman		Thanks. That's nice to hear. But I need to challenge myself as a writer. I've arrived at an age where I want to think about the world in a different way.
valerie		Adapting someone else's work is certainly an opportunity to think differently.
kaufman		Yes. And I welcome the challenge of taking a small subject, like orchids, something that would never draw people into a theater and making that fascinating. I want to show people heaven in a wildflower. As Blake wrote.
boy		Any one at all, ma?
mother		 A wonderful choice! And spiritually significant! Did you know that Native Americans believe the whole world rests on the back of a turtle?
boy		Cool!   I can't wait to tell the guys.
margaret		To a fucking awesome assignment, man.
kaufman		Hey, I'm going to an orchid show Sunday? For research? Maybe you'll come?
margaret		Absolutely. I think David, this guy I'm seeing, would enjoy it, too. He's a real naturalist. Okay if he comes along?
kaufman		 Yeah, of course. Sure.
margaret		He wants to meet you anyway.     All I do is tell him how great you are.
kaufman		Oh, thanks. That's nice to hear.
margaret		You'll like him. He's so honest and smart. It's rare to find someone in this town who thinks about things other than this fucking business, y'know?
kaufman		Yeah.     That's great.   He sounds great.
margaret		Like the other day we were in bed discussing Hegel. Hegel! In bed! It was fucking amazing. Have you read much?
kaufman		Y'know, a long time ago.   A bit.   Y'know.
margaret		Well, anyway, David and I were discussing his Philosophy of History and I was...
kaufman		Yeah.
margaret		... that nature doesn't exist historically, but rather cyclically. 
radio voice		How's that Injun round-up going, Tony?
tony		Fuck you, Barry, you fuckin'...
tony		Morning. May I ask what you gentlemen have in those pillowcases?
laroche		Yes, sir, you absolutely may.
tony		Okay, I'm asking then.
laroche		Oh, Okay then! Let's see...  Five kinds of bromeliad, one peperomia, nine orchid varieties. About a hundred and thirty plants all told, which my colleagues have removed from the swamp.
tony		You're aware that it's illegal to remove plants or animals from state owned land?
laroche		And don't forget these plants are all endangered, sir. Every one of them.
tony		Exactly. Well, that's exactly the issue. This is a state preserve.
laroche		Yes, sir, it is.  Oh, and my colleagues are all Seminole Indians. Did I mention that? You're familiar, I'm sure, with the State of Florida v. James E. Billie. Tony nods, even though he has no idea.
tony		But --
laroche		Not to mention the failed attempts on three separate occasions to prosecute Seminoles for poaching palm fronds, which, I believe, they use to thatch the roofs of their traditional chickee huts.
russell		He's right. That's exactly what we use them for. Chickee huts.
randy		Yeah.
vinson		Yeah.
russell		Yeah.
tony		Yeah, but I don't... I can't let you fellas go yet. Just hold on while I...  Hey, Barry, can I get some help? Barry?
orlean		Nothing in Florida seems hard or permanent. The developed places are just little clearings in the jungle, but the jungle is unstoppably fertile, everything is always growing or expanding. At the same time, the wilderness disappears before your eyes.
donald		Did you open your present from mom yet?
kaufman		What's with you?
donald		My back.
kaufman		A job is a plan. Is your plan a job?
donald		 I'm gonna be a screenwriter!   Like you!
kaufman		 Screenwriting seminars are bullshit.
kaufman		Donald, don't say "industry."
donald		I'm sorry, I forgot. Charles, this guy knows screenwriting. People from all over come to study his method. I'll pay you back, man. As soon as I sell --
kaufman		Let me explain something to you.
donald		Yeah, okay.
kaufman		Anybody who says he's got "the answer" is going to attract desperate people. Be it in the world of religion --
donald		 Okay, go ahead. Sorry. Okay. Go.
kaufman		There are no rules to follow, Donald, and anybody who says there are, is just --
donald		Not rules, principles. McKee writes: "A rule says, you must do it this way.   A principle says, this works... and has through all remembered time."
kaufman		The script I'm starting, it's about flowers. No one's ever done a movie about flowers before. So, there're no guidelines, and that's good because --
donald		What about Flowers for Algernon?
kaufman		That's not about flowers.    And it's not a movie.
donald		Oh, okay, I never saw it.    Go ahead.
kaufman		My point is, those teachers are dangerous if your goal is to do something new. And a writer should always have that goal. Writing is a journey into the unknown. It's not building a model airplane.
donald		McKee is a former Fulbright scholar. Are you a former Fulbright scholar, Charles?
boy		Turtles are of the order Testudine!
mother		Really?    Testudine?
boy		Yeah. And they're found on every continent! Except Antarptica!
mother		Antarctica. Every continent, huh?
boy		Uh-huh. The turtle shell has remained unchanged for two hundred million years! And there's all different kinds, Pelusio gabonensis, Phyrnops rufipes, Chitra indica, Dermochelys coriacea coriacea... EXT. SWAMP - LATE MORNING
laroche		... and what we have here, my friend, is ... thirteen Encyclia Cochleata... four Encyclia Tampensis -- MIKE OWEN I'm sorry, Encyclia what?
laroche		 Okay, let's see, twenty-two Epidendrum Nocturnum. A very good haul. Two Catopsi Floribunda. Three Polyrrhiza Lindenii, the ghost orchid. What I really came for. These sweeties grow nowhere in the U.S. except in your swamp.
mike owen		That true? Boy, you really know your plants, Mr. Laroche.
laroche		Yeah. I do. I'm one of the world's foremost experts. But that'll all be revealed at the hearing.
kaufman		Maybe you should watch what you eat, Donald. Did you ever consider maybe you're a bit fat? Does it ever occur to you, you kind of represent me in the world? That people look at you and think, he's Charlie's twin, therefore that's what Charlie must look like?
donald		By the way, mom's paying for the seminar.
kaufman		Did you even hear what I said?
donald		Yeah. Anyway. I pitched mom my screenplay --
kaufman		Jesus, don't say "pitch."
donald		Sorry. Anyway, she loved my... telling of my story to her. She said it's like "Silence of the Lambs" meets "Psycho."
kaufman		Hey, maybe you and mom could collaborate. I hear she's really good with structure.
donald		You think you're so superior, Charles. Well, I'm really gonna write this. And you'll see. And, and... you suck, okay?
orlean		Florida is a landscape of transition and mutation, a hybrid of unruliness and orderliness, nature and artifice.
lerner		Finally, Mr. Laroche, what is your experience in the area of horticulture?
laroche		Okay, I've been a professional horticulturist for twelve years. I've owned a plant nursery of my own which was destroyed by the hurricane. I'm a professional plant lecturer. I've given at least sixty lectures on the cultivation of plants. I'm a published author, both in magazine and book form. I have extensive experience with orchids, and the asexual micropropagation of orchids under aseptic cultures.   This is laboratory work, not at all like your nursery work.  I'm probably the smartest person I know.
lerner		Thank you.
laroche		You're very welcome.
kaufman		What?!
donald		Look, you wanna hear my pitch, or what?
kaufman		Go away.    God damn it.
donald		 Y'know, I'm just trying to do something.
kaufman		 It's a little obvious, don't you think?
donald		Okay, but there's a twist. See, we find out the killer suffers from multiple personality disorder. Okay? See, he's really also the cop and the girl. All of them. It's all him! Isn't that crazy?
kaufman		Look, the only idea more overused than serial killers, is multiple personality. On top of that you explore the notion that cop and criminal are really two aspects of the same person. See every cop movie ever made for other examples of this.
donald		Mom called it psychologically taut.
kaufman		The other thing is, there's no way to write this. Did you consider that? I mean, how exactly would you show a character holding himself hostage?
donald		Trick photography?
kaufman		Okay, that's not what I'm asking. What I'm asking is in the reality of this movie, if there's only one character, right?... Okay? How could you... What exactly would the scene... How...
laroche		They're gonna fucking crucify me.
baxley		I'll go into the Fakahatchee with a chainsaw. I swear to God.
lerner		Buster, for crying out loud, I reminded her the Indians used to own Fakahatchee. Look, we'll deal with all this at trial.
orlean		Mr. Laroche?
laroche		I'm familiar with the New Yorker. The New Yorker, yes, the New Yorker. Right? ORLEAN Right. So I was interested in doing a piece about your situation down here.
laroche		Yeah? Put this in: I don't care what goes on here. I'm right, and I'll take this all the way to the Supreme Court. That judge can screw herself.
alice		So what looks good today?
kaufman		Um. Hi. Thank you. The key lime pie, please. A small slice. I'm watching my... And a coffee, please. Skim milk.
alice		 Orchids! I absolutely love orchids.
kaufman		Yes.   They're really great.
alice		So, I'll be right back with your pie.
alice		 I absolutely love orchids.
orlean		 A few days after the hearing, Laroche took me to an orchid show in Miami.
laroche		I want you to know this van is a piece of shit. When I hit the jackpot, I'll buy myself an awesome car, maybe an Aurora.
laroche		The thing you gotta know is my whole life is looking for a goddamn profitable plant. And that's the ghost.
orlean		Why the ghost orchid?
laroche		The sucker's rare. Collectors covet what is not available. I'm the only one in the world who knows how to cultivate it.
donald		Cool.
kaufman		What do you want, Donald?
donald		Nothing. I just read about that Swamp Ape that supposedly lives in the swamp? Like bigfoot? You should put that in your script, like, killing people or something. That'd be very, very cool.
kaufman		Why are you in here now?
donald		Nothing, I was just... Oh, one thing, I need a cool way to kill people. Don't worry! For my script! Ha ha!
kaufman		Um, okay, killer's a literature professor who cuts off little chunks of his victims' bodies until they die. He'd be known in the tabloids as "The Deconstructionist."
donald		That's kinda good.   I like that.
kaufman		See, I was kidding, Donald.
donald		Oh, okay. Sorry. You got me! Heh-heh. Do you mind if I use it, though?
mother		 For certain is death for the born/And certain is birth for the dead/Therefore over the inevitable/Thou shouldst not grieve. Sweet, sweet Diane.
boy		Mom, there's something I feel I have to do. I don't know how to do this, but I feel in my stomach that I have to.
mother		What do you have to do, honey?
boy		Collect one of every turtle in the world.  I don't think my life is worth living if I can't do this.
mother		Well, we'd better get started, huh, baby?
orlean		Wow, that's some story. So how many turtles did you end up collecting?
laroche		 Oh, I lost interest right after that.
orlean		Oh.
laroche		I dropped turtles when I fell in love with Ice Age fossils. Learned everything about them. Collected the shit out of 'em. Fossils were the only thing made any sense to me in this fucking world. Y'know?
orlean		Okay, now what is lap --
laroche		Ditched lapidary for resilvering old mirrors. Did that with my mom for a while. We had the largest collection of 19th Century Dutch mirrors on the planet. Perhaps you read about us. Mirror World October '88? I have a copy somewhere...
orlean		So, did you ever miss the turtles? The only thing that made you ten year old life worth living?
laroche		I'll tell you a story. I once fell deeply, profoundly in love with tropical fish. I had sixty goddamn fish tanks in my house. I'd skin-dive to find just the right ones. Anisotremus virginicus, Holacanthus ciliaris, Chaetodon capistratus. You name it. Then one day I say, fuck fish. I renounce fish. 
orlean		 But why?
laroche		 Done with fish.
therapist		So --
kaufman		I'm still obsessed with that girl.
therapist		The Burger King girl? Dimples and sparkly eyes?
kaufman		California Pizza Kitchen.
therapist		Oh.    Red hair and nice?   Likes orchids?
kaufman		Yeah. She's really nice. I feel pretty certain she likes me maybe.
therapist		So do you think you'll talk to this one?
kaufman		Hi!
alice		Hey!    Some key lime pie for ya today?
kaufman		 Okay, yeah! That sounds great!     Yeah!
alice		I'll pick you out an extra large piece. Preferred customer.
kaufman		Thank you.     That's really sweet of you.
alice		Still reading about orchids, I hope.
kaufman		Yes, I am, in fact!    Beautiful flowers.
alice		A friend of mine has a pretty little pink one, grows right on a tree branch.
kaufman		That's what's called an epiphyte.
alice		 Right! Boy, you know your stuff, huh?
kaufman		Not really. I'm just learning. Epiphytes grow on trees, but they're not parasites. They get all their nourishment from the air and rain.
alice		Well, I'm impressed.    That's great.
kaufman		There are more than thirty thousand kinds of orchids in the world.
alice		Wow, that's a lot, huh? Okay, then, so I'll be right back with a nice big slice of key lime pie for my orchid expert.
kaufman		But, so, anyway, I was also wondering...
alice		Oh, um, well --
kaufman		I'm sorry.     I apologize.   I'm sorry.
alice		 So I'll be right back with your pie then.
orlean		There are more than thirty thousand known orchid species. One species looks like a German shepherd...
teenaged laroche		Encyclia tempensis. The butterfly. Laroche sets up the tripod, focuses on the flower.    His mother almost cries at the flower's beauty.
mother		"You will find something more in woods than in books. Trees and stones will teach you that which you can never learn from masters." Saint Bernard said that.
teenaged laroche		That's pretty, ma.
mother		Diane would've loved this flower, Johnny.
teenaged laroche		Maybe somehow she can see it.    Y'know?
mother		 So... after this one how many, honey?
teenaged laroche		Only one hundred and seventeen more.
mother		And you have to have a photo of every single type of orchid in Florida?
teenaged laroche		I have to, ma. You know that.
kaufman		I'm successful, right? I mean, I could say to a woman, I'm a screenwriter and she'd look at me differently. I could get laid. But I want someone to like me. For me. Y'know?    The way I like them. The way I'd do anything for that woman walking down the street. A million women walking down the street. I don't need to know what their jobs are. No one will ever love me like that. Like I love almost every woman I see.
laroche		Once you get the sickness, it takes over your life. I started out just photographing 'em. Now look at me.  It'll happen to you. You'll see.
orlean		I don't think so.     I'm not prone to --
laroche		Angraecum sesquipedale! Beauty! God! Darwin wrote about this one. Charles Darwin? Evolution guy? Hello?
orlean		 I know who Darwin is.
kaufman		Okay, opening of movie. Four billion years ago. Life has not begun. Endless, barren terrain. Silence. Silence.
laroche		See that nectary all the way down there? Darwin hypothesized a moth with a nose twelve inches long to pollinate it. Everyone thought he was a loon. Then, sure enough, they found this moth with a twelve inch proboscis -- proboscis means nose, by the way -- and --
orlean		I know what proboscis means.
laroche		Every one of these flowers has a specific relationship with the insect that pollinates it. There's an orchid that looks exactly like this particular insect. So the bug humps the flower and gets covered with its pollen. Thusly...
orlean		I get it.
laroche		That's called pseudo-copulation. These flowers are smart! You gotta fall in love with them. Once you learn anything about orchids, you'll devote your life to learning everything about them.
orlean		I wanted to want something as much as people wanted these plants but it isn't part of my constitution.
donald		McKee is a genius! And hilarious! He just comes up with these great jokes, and everyone laughs! But he's serious, too. You'd love him. He's all for originality, just like you! But he says, we have to realize we all write in a genre, so we must find originality within that genre. See, it turns out there hasn't been a new genre since Fellini invented the mockumentary!
kaufman		 You and I share the same DNA. Is there anything more lonely than that?
husband		You want to do something tonight?
orlean		I should work. I've got stuff...
laroche		 Asclepiadaceae. From thirty yards.   Yes.
laroche		 But, anyway, it was a godsend.
laroche		I consider the broken back -- in three places, by the way. I have x-rays --  -- a stroke of goddamn luck. I got disability, married the sweetest woman in the world. And me and my lovely new wife -- my now ex-wife, the bitch -- got to open our nursery.
laroche		People started coming out of the woodwork, to ask me stuff, to admire my plants, to admire me.
laroche		Catasetum tenebrosum. From Peru. It's neat 'cause its dimorphic, which means...
laroche		Henry! Look at that Dracula vampira! It's gorgeous, man.
laroche		Cool.
laroche		Bromeliad Tree. Hey, Dora! Good, good. Well, sure, you gotta watch the temperature. Don't want an odontoglossum above seventy-five. Uh-huh, that should be fine. Yeah, damp it down. Oh, I'm doing well. She's fine, too. Sure...
laroche		I believe some folks'd call me up to talk and just talk because they were lonely.
kaufman		I don't know how to adapt this. I should've just stuck with my own stuff. I don't know why I thought I could --
jerry		See her?   I fucked her up the ass.
jerry		Just kidding. Hey, maybe I can help. What's the problem, buddy?
kaufman		It's about flowers.
jerry		It's not only about flowers. It's got that crazy plant nut guy. He's funny, right?
kaufman		"There is not nearly enough of him to fill a book," blah blah blah, so Orlean "digresses in long passes" blah blah blah "no narrative really unites these passages." Blah blah blah blah blah. 
jerry		Oh man.   I'd fuck her up the ass.
kaufman		There's no story. The book has no story.
jerry		So make one up. The book's a jumping off point. No one in town can make up a crazy story like you. You're the king.
kaufman		I didn't want to do that this time. It's someone else's material. I have a responsibility... Anyway, I wanted to grow as a writer, do something profound and simple. Show people how amazing flowers are.
jerry		Are they amazing?
kaufman		I don't know. I think they are.
jerry		Look, what I tell a lot of guys is pick another film and use it as a model. I always thought this one could be like Apocalypse Now. The journalist spends the whole movie searching for the crazy plant nut guy -- what's his name?
kaufman		John Laroche.
jerry		She has to travel deep into the darkest swamps to find the mysterious "Laroche."
kaufman		I need you to get me out of this.
jerry		Charlie, at the end of the day, I think it would be a terrible career move.
laroche		The nursery was going well, but sometimes bad things happen. Darkness descends.
laroche		Sure you don't want to come, dad?
uncle jim		Nursery business good, Johnny?
laroche		Everything's good, Uncle Jim. This last year's been a dream, I'm telling you. We're finally pulling out of this debt.
mother		Amen, honey. Praise Allah, Buddha, Vishnu. And all the rest of 'em.
laroche		She divorced me soon after she regained consciousness. Then the hurricane destroyed my greenhouse. Everything. I knew it would break my heart to start another nursery, so when the Seminoles wanted a white guy, an expert, to get their nursery going, I took it.
laroche		But I wasn't gonna give them a conventional little potted-plant place. So I came up with the "ghost" plan.   I was gonna give them something amazing.
kaufman		... see, Laroche researched it and found that Indians have the legal right to take endangered plants off state lands.
woman		What an amazing opening! So then it's a courtroom drama. A Few Good Men! And all those Indian rights issues are so complex. There are valid arguments on both sides. I mean we took their land! We gave them smallpox!
kaufman		Well, actually, there wasn't much of a trial. Florida got 'em on a technicality, about cutting down non- endangered trees. Even the Indians aren't allowed to do that. They all plead no contest. Laroche got fined five hundred bucks and banned from the Fakahatchee for six months.
woman		Oh, wow.      So, like, then what happens?
kaufman		Nothing much. That's what I like. I mean, most people's lives don't include a lot of drama and I wanted to sort of be compelling without having to resort to big, um... Y'know what I mean?
woman		 Absolutely. I absolutely do.
kaufman		It's, like, Blake talked about seeing the world in a grain of sand and heaven in a wild flower. Y'know? Or like Hegel?
kaufman		Oh, hi.    Hi. Hey!   Hi!
kaufman		Yeah, me too.
kaufman		It's good. It's complicated what I'm trying to do, but it's going very well.
orlean		Hello, John? It's Susan.
orlean		So I was thinking it'd be good for the article for me to go into the Fakahatchee to see a ghost. Would you take me?
kaufman		 Travelling into the Fakahatchee, Donald, is a perfect metaphor for writing. I'm stepping into the confusion of the unknown. I'm taking the big risk here.
kaufman		It's dark, dangerous, as dense as steel wool. I don't know if I'll come out alive, but if I do, I'll have something true to give the world. That's the difference between writing and aping some moron's "principles."
donald		Hey, Charles, I'm thinking of putting a song in. Y'know like when characters sing pop songs in their pajamas and dance around. I thought it might be a nice way to break the tension. So, try to think of a song about split personality...
orlean		You would have to want something very badly...
kaufman		Hey!    How was Denver?
stewardess		Oh, God, sweetie, I'm so glad to be home.
orlean		The swamp's darkness and denseness can rattle your nerves. A sailor on a pluma- collecting expedition wrote in his diary:
orlean		The swampy part of the Fakahatchee is hot and wet and buggy and full of cottonmouth snakes and diamond back rattlers and...
mike owen		Charlie?
kaufman		 Yes. Hi.
mike owen		So the whole ecosystem is six thousand years old. Five to six thousand years old. About that. Five or six.
kaufman		Okay.
mike owen		Now the Fakahatchee is the largest of all the cyrpess strands, probably in the world. I don't know of any cypress strand bigger. It's about twenty miles long, or nineteen, nineteen to twenty, nineteen... and right here it's about five miles wide, four and a half, five. So, again, it's twenty miles long, three to five miles wide. And over here --
mike owen		The oldest carbon dating they've done on any of the peat out here is fifty-seven hundred years. That's with carbon-14. 
kaufman		Why isn't it wet? Orlean wrote about wading through black, corrosive water. She said it was the scariest experience of her life. And when I spoke to you on the phone, you said wear heavy boots, long pants and...
mike owen		There's usually water. We've been going through a bit of a drought. Say, have you seen that movie, Medicine Man? That's a good movie about protecting nature. It shows there could be something important in a rain forest we don't even know about, like a cure for cancer.
kaufman		It's not even hot. I was expecting it to be awful. Sun beating down, wading through water, looking out for snakes, wild hogs. I was thinking it would be dramatic. Alligators. Something!
mike owen		The alligators are over by the lakes. The temperature's a blessing for us. This time of year can get uncomfortably hot.  Green anole. Florida's most common.
mike owen		What Laroche did was wrong. Those flowers belong to all of us, all 250 million of us -- 250? I think it's up to 270 now -- And belonging to all of us means they belong to none of us. Nobody has a right to take them. Not me, not you, not John Laroche, not...
kaufman		Listen, um, Susan Orlean wrote about a legendary creature called a Swamp Ape. Have you ever heard stories or --
mike owen		 Tourist garbage! I don't know why people need to invent silly creatures to make nature fascinating. Isn't nature amazing enough?
kaufman		 I just asked because she mentioned it.
orlean		That night I called Laroche.
orlean		Thank you.      Thanks very much.
valerie		We're big fans.
orlean		Oh, thank you.
valerie		And Laroche is such a fun character.
orlean		Yeah, John's a character all right.
valerie		It's funny and fresh.     And sad in a way.
orlean		Well, thanks. Thank you.
valerie		So we were wondering, what's next?
orlean		Oh, um, Random House wants me to expand it into a book. So I'll be doing that.
valerie		And there'll be more of Laroche?
orlean		Yeah.   More John, more orchids.
valerie		Y'know, we'd really like to option it.
orlean		 You want to make this into a movie?
valerie		Laroche is such a fun character.   So...
laroche		No shit I'm a fun character.  Who's gonna play me?
orlean		I've got to write it first. Someone's gotta write the screenplay. Most things never get made. It's premature to --
laroche		I think I should play me.
laroche		I've got all the right qualities. While you write, I'll take an acting class.
laroche		I wear this just to screw with 'em.
laroche		Most of them don't even bother calling me John anymore. It's "Crazy White Man" now. 
baxley		John.
laroche		I was trying to order some pink string beans from Argentina.
baxley		No kidding.
laroche		I figure just because Project Ghost Orchid is dead, we're not closing shop.
baxley		Listen, John --
laroche		We'll get into plant multiplication. Buy little ones, turn 'em into big ones, sell 'em at a profit. Simple plant multiplication for the masses.
baxley		John, we're thinking maybe now's a good time for you to take a few weeks.
laroche		I don't need a vacation, Buster.
baxley		It's a good time.   Things are slow.
laroche		Y'know, the guys on my crew here, all they do is smoke weed all day. I been meaning to talk to you about that. So if it's a question of productivity --
laroche		They're gonna fire me. Goddamn politics. Crazy White Man's bad publicity.  Like I could give a damn. If they fire me, I'll sue. I already did some legal research on this when I was doing the other shit. They can't fire me. And I ain't going to quit.
orlean		John, it's Susan.  So, I was just wondering if you might be willing to talk some more.
orlean		C'mon, John, I'm trying to put together a book. Don't just abandon me down here.
laroche		I'm no longer interested in orchids. I'm pursuing other avenues. I apologize for any inconvenience this might cause you.
laroche		Thank you for your time.
kaufman		California.
kaufman		You kind of need a car. I guess West Hollywood would be okay.
kaufman		I'm not recommending it.
kaufman		No.     Not really.
kaufman		I don't know.
kaufman		I'd smell it.
kaufman		It could be poison.    I don't know you.
kaufman		Right.
driver		Mr. Kaufman, do you mind if I ask what type of work you do for Sony?
kaufman		I'm a writer.
driver		 A song writer?
kaufman		No, I'm a screenwriter.
driver		Oh, wow! Good for you. You mind if I ask what your movie's about?
kaufman		It's about flowers.
driver		I heard about that!   Drug flowers, right?
kaufman		Yeah.   That's it.
driver		I heard about that! That's great! Action-adventure is my favorite genre.
donald		How was Florida, man?
kaufman		 Okay.
donald		Cool! Hey, my script's going amazing! Right now I'm working out an Image System. Bob calls it an invaluable asset. Because of my multiple personality theme, I've chosen the motif of broken mirrors to show my protagonist's fragmented self. Bob teaches that an Image System greatly increases the complexity of an aesthetic emotion.
kaufman		You sound like you're in a cult.
donald		No, it's just good writing technique. 
donald		You shouldn't have done that.
kaufman		There is no Swamp Ape. It was invented for people who can't find the actual world fascinating. Y'know?
donald		Oh, okay. I didn't know that. Sorry. Hey, I got a song! "Happy Together." I was worried about putting a song in a thriller, but Bob says, Casablanca, the greatest screenplay ever written, did exactly that. Mixed genres.
kaufman		I need to go to bed, Donald.    I haven't slept in a week.
donald		Okay.
kaufman		Damn it.
kaufman		Such sweet, sad insights.   So true.
kaufman		And you're... I like looking at you.
orlean photo		I like looking at you, too.   Charlie.
kaufman		I don't know how to do this. I'm afraid I'll disappoint you. You've written a beautiful book. I can't sleep. I'm losing my hair. I'm fat and repulsive --
orlean photo		Shhh. You're not. Whittle it down, focus on one thing in the story, find the thing you care passionately about and write about that.
kaufman		We see Susan Orlean, delicate, fragile, beautiful, haunted by loneliness, typing at her desk. She looks at the camera and talks to us: "John Laroche is a tall guy, skinny as a stick, pale-eyed, slouch- shouldered..."
donald		Morning.
kaufman		Hey, hey.
donald		You seem chipper.
kaufman		I'm good.     I have some new ideas.
donald		Cool. Me too. I'm putting in a chase sequence now. The killer flees on horseback with the girl. The cop is after them on a motorcycle. It's like a battle between motors and horses.
kaufman		They're all still one person, right?
donald		Yeah, hey, that's the big pay-off.
kaufman		 Well, it sounds exciting.
donald		Thanks, man. Thanks.
orlean		I suppose what I'd been doing in Florida was trying to understand how people found order and contentment and a sense of purpose in the universe by fixing their sighs on one single desire. Now I was also trying to understand how someone could end such intense desire without a trace.
orlean		Hello, John, it's Susan.
orlean		So, how's everything going?
orlean		That sounds good.
orlean		So I've been meeting a lot of orchid people, going to shows, I thought you might want to hear about it.
orlean		If you really loved something, wouldn't a little of it always linger?
kaufman		I'm so thrilled I get to adapt your book, get to merge my thoughts with yours. I love that. It's intimate, like a marriage.
orlean		Not like a marriage.
kaufman		Maybe what marriage could be.
orlean		Isn't it ironic? You adapting my book? My three years in Florida meditating on my inability to experience passion resulted in my finding it with you.
kaufman		... and in the final sequence Susan as a young girl swings alone in the backyard. From high in the air she sees her parents in separate rooms staring blankly in opposite directions. This symbolizes the profound scarring their waning passion has had on the girl's psyche, how she became afraid to ever really love something because it would go away.
kaufman		Yallo?
kaufman		Good.     I think really good now.
kaufman		 Oh. Uh-huh, uh-huh.
kaufman		Oh.   Good.
kaufman		Um, well, y'know, for me it's distracting to... or confusing to discuss what I'm exploring in the screenplay at this point... before I finish... it. So...
kaufman		Tell Susan I'd be very happy to meet her at a future date. As she sees fit.
kaufman		And tell her how much I love her book. Say I think she's such a great writer.
kaufman		Okay.   Nice talking to you.   Okay then.
kaufman		You can sit here and pretend to be a writer, mocking the seriousness of what I do, like some kind of fucking funhouse mirror version of me! But let me tell you, you don't know what writing is!
jerry		... we need to talk about the orchid script. Valerie called yesterday. They're getting antsy.
kaufman		I think I've got it on track now.
jerry		Good.   She said you sounded weird.
kaufman		No Hollywood bullshit. Just raw truth. Sometimes that takes a while to find.
jerry		Okay.    What's the time frame here?
kaufman		It's goddamned honest, Jerry.   It's true.
jerry		Oh, hey, my friend sent me this fucked- up internet thing. It's a girl taking a shit, but a trout comes out. You got e- mail yet? I'll send it to you.
kaufman		This is more honest than anything anyone's ever done before in a movie, I'll tell you that. The only truth we can offer is the truth that's our own experience of the world. "The great poet, in writing himself, writes his time." T.S. Eliot.
jerry		It sounds good, buddy. But we do need to give Valerie a ballpark --
kaufman		I'm sick of their constant harassment!
motes		You've been checking out the displays?
orlean		Yeah.
motes		It's the Miami centennial, we're supposed to illustrate something about Florida history.
orlean		Right. Now Laroche is part of Florida history. As a mannequin.
motes		It's a world of words to the end of it./In which nothing solid is its solid self. You'll have to forgive me, I'm a reformed poetry professor.
orlean		Who is that?
motes		Wallace Stevens.
orlean		John, it's Susan.
orlean		I went to the Orchid Society Show a couple of days ago.
orlean		There was a display of you stealing the ghost orchids. You're famous.
orlean		So, look, John, I still haven't seen a ghost. And I was wondering --
orlean		Really?   Thank you so much!   I just...
kaufman		What?!    What do you want?
donald		I finished. My script.    I'm done.
kaufman		Ourobouros.
donald		I don't know what that means.
kaufman		The snake is called Ourobouros.
donald		I don't think so. But it's cool for my killer to have this modus operandi. Because at the end when he forces the woman, who's really just him, to eat herself, he's also eating himself to death.
kaufman		I'm insane. I'm Ourobouros.
donald		I don't know what that is.
kaufman		I've written myself into my screenplay. It's eating itself. I'm eating myself.
donald		Oh.   That's kinda weird.
kaufman		It's self-indulgent. It's narcissistic. It's solipsistic. It's pathetic. I'm pathetic. I'm fat and pathetic.
donald		I'm sure you had a good reason, Charles. You're an artist.
kaufman		The reason is I'm too timid to speak to the woman who wrote the book. Because I'm pathetic. Because I have no idea how to write. Because I can't make flowers fascinating. Because I suck.
donald		Hey, am I in the script, too?
kaufman		I'm going to New York. I'll meet her. That's it. That's what I have to do.
donald		Don't get mad at me for saying this, Charles, but Bob's got a seminar in New York this weekend. So if you're stuck --
orlean		Where are our supplies?
laroche		Got everything I need right here.
laroche		I remember one time when I was a kid, fifteen or so, my mother and I came to the Fakahatchee to look for a ghost to photograph. We walked for hours, through the most intense heat I'd ever felt.   We couldn't find one. I wanted to turn back. But my mom said, no. 
orlean		He made it sound like a Bible story, the hopeful journey through darkness into light. I never thought many people in the world were like John, but I was realizing more and more that Laroche was an extreme, not an aberration -- most people in some way or another do strive for something exceptional, something to pursue, even at their peril, rather than abide an ordinary life.
laroche		Here we go. Encyclia tempensis.
orlean		Cute.
laroche		Clamshell orchid. You know that.
orlean		Uh-huh.
laroche		See, I found you two already. I'll show you every orchid you want today. I'll find you a fucking ghost if it kills me.  Rigid Epidendrum. That's an ugly-ass orchid. But I'm no snob. I'm interested in all orchids. Not just pretty ones.
laroche		 They're right nearby.    Just follow me.
orlean		Thanks.   Could I get some lemon please?
orlean		Laroche, can I ask you a personal question?
laroche		We're not lost.
laroche		We're not lost.
orlean		 Not really.
laroche		Well, y'know it's not really about collecting the thing, it's about --
orlean		The sundial isn't working.
laroche		It is so working.
orlean		So, John...
laroche		Okay, fuck the sundial. We'll just go straight and eventually we'll get there.
kaufman		Hello?
kaufman		No, it's okay.
kaufman		Yeah.    Susan Orlean.
kaufman		You can't rush inspiration.   Y'know?
kaufman		What the hell is Me, Myself, and I?
kaufman		Oh.   Good.
kaufman		Jerry, don't say that.   I mean --
kaufman		Jerry, I gotta go. I have an appointment. I gotta go.
laroche		I've done this a million times. Whenever everything's killing me, I just say to myself, screw it, and go straight ahead.
registrar		May I help you?
mckee		Years from now you'll be standing around a posh cocktail party congratulating yourself on how you spent an entire weekend locked in a room with an asshole, an opinionated arrogant asshole, for your art.
mckee		So... what is the substance of writing? Nothing as trivial as words is at the heart of this great art, my friends.
mckee		Literary talent is not enough. First, last, and always, the imperative is to tell a story.
mckee		Twenty three hundred years ago, Aristotle said, when storytelling goes bad in a society, the result is decadence.  Well, just look around you.
mckee		... and God help you if you use voice- over in your work, my friends.
mckee		God fucking help you! It's flaccid, sloppy writing. Any idiot can write voice-over narration to explain the thoughts of a character. You must present the internal conflicts of your character in image, in symbol. Film is a medium of movement and image.
mckee		You want your writing to be original. You want to have an original voice like Neil Simon or Nora Ephron. Well, let me tell you something, my friends. The key to originality is not eccentricity.
mckee		Long speechs are antithetical to the nature of cinema. The Greeks called it stykomythia -- the rapid exchange of ideas. A long speech in a script, say a page long, requires that the camera hold on the actor's face for a minute. Look at the second hand on your watch as it makes one complete rotation around the clock face and you'll get an idea of how intolerable that would be for an audience. The ontology of the screen is that it's always now and it's always action and it's always vivid. Life is rarely vivid. And that's an important point. We are not recreating life on the screen. Writers are not tape recorders. Have you ever eavesdropped on people talking in a coffee shop? Then you know how dull and tedious real conversation is. Real people are not interesting. There's not a person in this world -- and I include myself in this -- who would be interesting enough to take as is and put in a movie as a character.
mckee		Someone asked me recently, Bob, do you think Michelle Pfeiffer is pretty.
mckee		Anyone else?
kaufman		You talked about Crisis as the ultimate decision a character makes, but what if a writer is attempting to create a story where nothing much happens, where people don't change, they don't have any epiphanies. They struggle and are frustrated and nothing is resolved. More a reflection of the real world --
mckee		The real world? The real fucking world? First of all, if you write a screenplay without conflict or crisis, you'll bore your audience to tears. Secondly: Nothing happens in the real world? Are you out of your fucking mind? People are murdered every day! There's genocide and war and corruption! Every fucking day somewhere in the world somebody sacrifices his life to save someone else! Every fucking day someone somewhere makes a conscious decision to destroy someone else! People find love! People lose it, for Christ's sake! A child watches her mother beaten to death on the steps of a church! Someone goes hungry! Somebody else betrays his best friend for a woman! If you can't find that stuff in life, then you, my friend, don't know much about life! And why the fuck are you taking up my precious two hours with your movie? I don't have any use for it! I don't have any bloody use for it!
kaufman		Okay, thanks.
kaufman		Mr. McKee?
mckee		Yes?
kaufman		I'm the guy you yelled at this morning.
mckee		 I need more.
kaufman		I was the one who thought things didn't happen in life.
mckee		Oh, right, okay.    Nice to see you.
kaufman		I need to talk.
mckee		I make it a rule not to give private tutorials to my seminar students. It wouldn't be fair to the others.
kaufman		Mr. McKee, please. My even standing here is very scary. I don't meet people well. I'm self-conscious and timid. But what you said this morning shook me to the bone. What you said was bigger than my screenwriting choices. It's about my choices as a human being. Please.
mckee		I could use a drink, my friend.
kaufman		... We followed it like a beacon all the way to the road.
mckee		Then what happens?
kaufman		That's the book. I wanted to present it simply, without big character arcs or sensationalizing the story. I wanted to show flowers as God's miracles.   I wanted to show that Orlean never saw the blooming ghost orchid. It's about disappointment.
mckee		I see. That's not a movie.     You must go back and put in the drama.
kaufman		 I've got pages of false starts and wrong approaches. I'm way past my deadline. I can't go back.
mckee		Ah, the everpresent deadline. Yes, I was doing a Kojak once and... it was hell.
kaufman		You promise?
mckee		You've taken my course before?
kaufman		My brother did. My twin brother Donald. He's the one who got me to come.
mckee		Twin screenwriters. Julius and Philip Epstein,who wrote Casablanca were twins.
kaufman		You mentioned that in class.
mckee		The finest screenplay ever written.
kaufman		Donald.
kaufman		Yeah. Listen, I'm calling to say congratulations on your script.
kaufman		That's great, Donald.
kaufman		I wasn't any help.
kaufman		Well, look, I've been thinking, maybe you'd be interested in hanging out with me in New York for a few days.
kaufman		So, like, what would you do?
donald		Script kind of makes fun of me, huh?
kaufman		Sorry.   I was trying something.   I --
donald		Hey, I don't mind.   It's funny.
kaufman		Okay.    So, what would you do?
donald		You and me are so different, Charles. We're different talents.
kaufman		I know. Just for fun. How would the great Donald end this script?
donald		 Well, I mean... do you need the whole court case?
kaufman		Uh, it's what happened to Laroche.   It's kind of important.
donald		It's boring. No offense. A courtroom scene should be dramatic. Stick the ruling in a line of dialogue, maybe.
kaufman		Um.   Okay.
donald		Too much about orchids. Get rid of it. Pare that stuff down to a minimum. Frankly, I'd focus more on the relationship between the brothers. I think that's the gold here. No one cares about orchids.
kaufman		The book's about orchids.
donald		That's a problem. But don't let it ruin the movie. I mean, for example, use the orchids in a more dramatic way. Have some kind of bang-up, crazy action sequence in the swamp. Use the swamp better. It's a tremendous fictional world. A setting of great dramatic possibility.
kaufman		That's true. But --
donald		And put some twists in. Reveal some surprising thing about Laroche. God, what am I doing giving suggestions to you? I mean you're like a seasoned professional. You're an artist.
kaufman		C'mon, you're the "mill-five" kid.
donald		 I love the Laroche porno web-site stuff. Is that real? Maybe make a bigger deal of that. I don't know.
kaufman		I think it's real.   I haven't actually seen the site.
donald		It's sex, man! Incorporate it.
donald		Oh, hi, I was doing some research.   I found Laroche's site and... I'm embarrassed.
kaufman		Jesus, Donald.
donald		What? She's kinda cute. You don't like her? I dunno, I think she's okay. It's not like I'm marrying her.
kaufman		Jesus.   Jesus!
donald		I think this is maybe a good thing for the script. Go ask her about this.
kaufman		I'm not gonna ask her about this.
donald		You want me to? I don't mind.
kaufman		No, I don't want you to.
donald		I could easily pretend I'm you.
kaufman		No!    No!
orlean		So you'll pick me up?    Yeah, tomorrow.
kaufman		What was she wearing?
donald		I don't know. Like a dress maybe.
kaufman		Did she look at me?    At you?
donald		Finally! Da-da-da-daaaaah! S. Orlean, TWA flight 651. Arriving Miami 10:20 tomorrow morning.
kaufman		I don't want to do this, Donald.
donald		We'll go together.       It'll be good.
kaufman		It's so weird to actually see that van in real life.
donald		So you want to build the symbolic charge of the story's imagery from the particular to the universal. Okay?
kaufman		Okay, but when you're creating an image system, how do you know --
donald		I'll get a closer look.   You wait here.
kaufman		 No, I want to go. I should go. I mean, it should be me, right? I mean...
donald		Go for it, bro. You the man.
kaufman		Holy...
orlean		Don't stop, Johnny.
laroche		Who the hell are you?
kaufman		I just... nobody, I just --
laroche		Who the fuck are you?
kaufman		Um. I'm just. I was at the wrong house. I'm looking for the Johnson family.
laroche		I got your Johnson family right here.
orlean		Honey, come back to bed.
laroche		Who the hell sent you?      Rudy?
kaufman		I'm not --
laroche		What the fuck does that mean?
kaufman		I'm the guy adapting her book.      Her book about you.
laroche		Jesus Fucking Christ.  Why the fuck were you in my backyard?
kaufman		I was, um, trying... I don't know.
orlean		Who's the bloody fat guy?
laroche		This is the fellow adapting your book for the movies, darling'.
orlean		 Oh. What does he know?
kaufman		I don't know anything.   I swear.
laroche		He knows about the greenhouse.  We can't have this appear on the silver screen.
kaufman		It won't.    I don't even under --
orlean		Johnny, I'm so tired now.
laroche		He needs to be gotten rid of.
kaufman		What?!
laroche		Small article in newspaper.
orlean		Johnny, come lie on top of me.
laroche		Focus, darling'. Is this credible?
orlean		 Screenwriter, you have a car?
kaufman		I, um, no, I --
orlean		We drive his car there, leave it on the side of the swamp. That works.
laroche		Good.   I like that.
orlean		 Sorry.
kaufman		Please.
kaufman		I thought I had a sense of you from your book.  I had a little crush on you, to tell the truth. You're different than I thought.
orlean		Huh.
kaufman		Look, I don't care what you two are you doing.   Please don't kill me.
orlean		Hey, here's one of my lines.  "Isn't it ironic? You adapting my book? My three years in Florida meditating on my inability to experience passion resulted in my finding it with you."
kaufman		I was trying to do something.
orlean		Well, it's kind of pathetic, dontcha think?
orlean		Here's me! Here's me again!  "I wanted to know what it's like to care about something passionately."
kaufman		You can laugh, but I didn't make that line up. That's a quote from your book.
orlean		Yeah, I know, Charlie-boy. Chill. I'm laughing at who I used to be. It's sad.
kaufman		So now you learned about passion.  From Weirdo Laroche. Bully for you.
orlean		You can't learn about passion. You can be passion. And it wasn't John who made me passion. It was orchids.
kaufman		I thought you didn't even like orchids.
orlean		I lied about what happened at the end of the book. On the way out of the swamp...
laroche		The jewel of the Fakahatchee.
orlean		I still don't get it. I mean, there it is. I can see it's pretty, but --
laroche		You'll get it.
orlean		The first time I tried it, the split second it took effect, I understood orchids. I loved them with a passion I'd never felt for anything. For anyone.
orlean		Isn't it curious? An orchid made me passionate about orchids.
kaufman		You're throwing the truth away for a chemical confusion of your synapses --
orlean		With this powder I am passionate about everything. 
laroche		This spot looks good.  Now how do we do this? Hit him in the head with a rock first? Keeping in mind we can only hit him once and only with as much force as would be created by him slipping and falling onto the rock.
orlean		Holy Jesus. Holy...   Hey, baby, hey...
laroche		Should we drown him, then hit him on the head? Uh-uh. A body bleeds different if the heart's stopped. These new forensic guys are very smart. We really have to know our corpses to stand a chance: rigor mortis, lividity, putrefecation, ocular changes. 
kaufman		I don't write this kind of bullshit.
laroche		Don't get all huffy, I was simply --
orlean		 Yeah, let's, baby.
laroche		Not now. We got to kill that guy. And now I guess that other guy as well.
orlean		 Ohhh.
kaufman		For Christ's sake, why didn't you do something while we were in the car?
donald		My back had seized.     I couldn't move.
kaufman		Shit!
donald		We've gotta ditch this thing.
kaufman		 It's a rental! It's a rental!
donald		Now!
orlean		That's beautiful! What's that, Johnny? What's that one called? I just so want to fuck that flower, don't you?
laroche		Asclepias lanceolata. Red milkweed. Extremely fuckable. But we don't have time.
laroche		 What's his name?
orlean		Um, y'know... Charlie or something.
laroche		Charlie! Listen, let's talk! This pie is big enough for four people!  Why are there two of him?
orlean		Identical twigs?  Did I say twigs? I meant twins.
laroche		Cladium jamaicense, guys. Sawgrass. You want to watch out for that. That's some evil shit. Cut you up.
kaufman		Fuck you, Laroche!
laroche		Just tryin' to be helpful. Walk with us and I'll be sure you avoid all the pitfalls. I know these swamps forwards and backwards. There's alligators and poisonous snakes, fellas. Wild hogs.
donald		Wait.   Do you hear something?
kaufman		Donald, that sounds bad.
kaufman		Watch out, watch out, watch out!
donald		I think we're okay.
kaufman		Fuck!   Fuck, Donald, we're dead.
donald		We're okay. How's your leg?
kaufman		I don't know. How's your back.
donald		It's fine.     My back is fine.
kaufman		Donald!
kaufman		You're gonna be okay.
donald		No.  But don't let them get you, too.  You got a fucking awesome third act.
kaufman		 Donald, this is an awful, bizarre thing to say and an awful time to say it, but I'm sorry I didn't get to know you better. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry.
donald		It's really... You've been really nice.
kaufman		See, it's just I thought I knew you already. I thought you were me. And I hated me.
donald		Well, don't do that anymore.      Okay?
kaufman		Okay.
mike owen		Jesus, that writer guy.
orlean		Water sounds so sparkly. Like lemon plastic jewels plopping onto a silver trampoline! Dontcha think?
laroche		Darlin', please.
orlean		Can we fuck now, baby?    Fuck like lemons?
kaufman		You gotta help me.    You gotta help me.
mike owen		What the hell is going on here?
kaufman		They're after me. They've got guns. They killed my brother.
mike owen		Who's got guns? What are you --
orlean		Hey, it's the screenwriter!
kaufman		There's a thing back there!    You don't want to be here.
laroche		You're right, I don't want to be here. I'm tired, let's get this over with.
orlean		I love your gun, baby.    Can we trade?
laroche		Stand back, sweetness.
orlean		Where'd Johnny go?
orlean		 Oh, Johnny.
kaufman		I'd just stare at your picture, and you looked so sweet. I read your words and I thought you were smart and maybe lost and lonely like me. And the way you wrote about Laroche. You said he was handsome even though he had no front teeth --
orlean		Oh, Johnny. Johnny's teeth.     Oh...
kaufman		I figured you could look at me and see something, even with all my flaws you could look at me and find something, you could maybe someday write a description of me that would be nicer than the one I write day in and day out in my head.  Would it be?
orlean		You're really so wonderful.
kaufman		Really?
orlean		So wonderful. I can see inside your soul. It glows with orange sadness. It's raining inside you. I want to run through your dripply dripples. It's so beautiful. I love you. I do.
kaufman		It's the drugs.
orlean		No, it's me. It's the real me. Look at you. I just want to hold you and -- Oh, crap, it's wearing off. Crap!
kaufman		Okay, bye.
orlean		I can't let you go, fatty.    I can't let you make this public.
kaufman		Donald!
donald		My brother is not fat. He's not bald. My brother is a great writer! He was trying to do something important!
kaufman		That's Mike Owen. John Laroche. Susan Orlean. I don't know what that is. I think it might be a Swamp Ape. And that's Donald, my twin brother. He saved my life.
police officer		You two really look alike.
kaufman		 Yeah. Yes, we do.
alice		Oh, I love McKee!  Oh, hi. Haven't seen you in a while.
kaufman		Hi.    Yeah, I've been away.
alice		So you studying screenwriting?
kaufman		I'm actually finishing one up.
alice		Good for you! Me too. God, it's so hard to get in, huh? Everyone and their brother is writing a screenplay.
kaufman		Yeah. Actually I'm writing this one for Sony Pictures.
alice		Really? Wow. Really?   That's so cool. 
kaufman		That's tough. Let's see... about being yourself, maybe. It's about learning that if you can't love yourself, you can't really love anyone.
alice		That's true. God, that's so true.     It's such an important message, y'know?
kaufman		See, my twin brother was murdered recently --
alice		Oh God!    I'm sorry.   That's so horrible.
kaufman		Thanks. Like part of me ripped away. Forever. It was a wake up call.
alice		I'm so sorry. You poor man.
kaufman		Anyway, it helped put things in perspective. Life is a miracle. All life, from the flower to the human being. You. Me. And I want to show people that. For my brother. For everyone.
alice		Listen, do you mind if I sit for a sec?
kaufman		But you're working.
alice		 It's a stupid job, y'know.    I'm Alice.
kaufman		Charlie.
alice		I like that name. Charlie. I've always really liked that name. Charlie.
****Dialogues from script :affliction.txt****

wade		I'm sorry for the screw-up. But I couldn't help it it's too late to go trick-or-treating now. I couldn't help it I had to stop at Penny's for the costume. And you were hungry, remember.
jill		Who's fault is it then if it's not yours? You're the one in charge, Daddy.
wade		 Yeah.
jill		Look. Those kids are still trick-or- treating. They're still out.
wade		Those are the Hoyts.
jill		I don't care. They're out.
wade		Can't you see... look out there. Nobody's got their porch lights on anymore. It's too late. Those Hoyt kids are just out to get in trouble. See, they put shaving cream all over that mailbox there. They chopped down Herb Crane's new bushes. Little bastards. Jesus H. Christ.
jill		Why do they do that?
wade		Do what?
jill		You know.
wade		Break stuff?
jill		Yeah. It's stupid.
wade		I guess they're stupid.
jill		Did you do that when you were a kid?
wade		Well, yeah. Sort of. Nothing really mean. Me and my pals, me and my brothers. It was kind of funny then. Stealing pumpkins, soaping windows. Stuff like that.
jill		Was it funny?
wade		To us it was.
jill		But it's not funny now.
wade		It's not funny now. I'm a cop and I gotta listen to all the complaints people make. I'm not a kid anymore. You change.
jill		I bet you did lots of bad things.
wade		What are you talking about?
jill		I just think you used to be bad.
wade		No. I didn't used to be bad. No sir. Where do you get this stuff? From your mother?
jill		No. She doesn't talk about you anymore.
lariviere		We're looking for the funniest costume! And the scariest! And the most imaginative! And the best costume of all!
wade		 Got here just in time. Go ahead. Jump in line. Maybe you'll win a prize.
wade		Go on, Jill. Some of those kids you still know.
jill		I don't want to.
wade		Why? Why not? You know these kids from when you went to school here. It hasn't been that long.
jill		It's not that.
wade		What then?
jill		It's stupid.
wade		It's fun.
jill		 I don't like it here.
wade		Oh, Jesus, come on, will you? Don't mess this up anymore than it's already been messed up. Join the other kids. Do that and before you know it you'll be as happy as a goddamned clam.
lariviere		Wade! And who's that tiger? Is that Jill? Come and join us.
wade		What are you boys up to?
chick		Same old shit.
frankie		You see the damage these little sons- of bitches been raising tonight?
wade		 You're going to have to move your pickup.
jack		I know.
chick		 Take a bite.
wade		Don't mind if I do.
jack		LaRiviere's having a hell of a time in there. Master of fucking ceremonies.
wade		Where's that gun you were bragging on today?
jack		No brag. Just fact.
frankie		Nice.
jack		 See you got Jill tonight. How'd you manage that?
wade		Some party, huh? Sorry I lost sight of you. I had to step outside for a smoke. You find anybody you know here? There must be some kids you used to know from school. You want to go tomorrow? See your old teachers? Be more fun than hanging out with me all day.
jill		No.
wade		No what?
jill		 No I didn't see anybody I know. No I don't want to go to school here tomorrow. I want to go home.
wade		You are home. There are lots of kids you still know here.
jill		I don't want to be here. Don't worry, I love you, Daddy, I do. But I want to go home.
wade		 Jesus. Listen, Jill, tell you what. Tomorrow morning, you still want to go home, I'll drive you down. I'll get off work or something.
jill		 I called Mommy.
wade		What? You called Mommy? Just now?
jill		Yes.
wade		Jesus, why?
jill		I... because I want to go home. She said she'd come and get me.
wade		Come and get you! Shit! It's a damn half hour drive each way. Why didn't you talk to me about it first?
jill		See, I knew you'd be mad.
wade		Yeah. Yeah, right, I'm mad. What'd you tell her, for Christ sake?
jill		I told her I wanted to come home. Daddy, don't be mad at me.
wade		Well, I guess I am. I planned this, I planned all this, you know. I mean, it's sort of pathetic, but I planned it. You shouldn't have called your mother.  C'mon, we're gonna call her before she leaves.
wade		She's gone already!  Gone already! Couldn't wait.
jill		Yes.
wade		That's all you got to say? "Yes".
jill		Yes.
wade		She won't be here for a half hour. Think you can stand it that long?
jill		Yes.
wade		Where do you expect to wait for her? Obviously downstairs with the other kids isn't good enough.
wade		Sit right there by yourself if you want. Wait for her by yourself. That's fine with me. Just dandy. I'm going downstairs.
jill		That's fine with me too. When Mommy comes, tell her I'm up here.
wade		I thought I told you to move that truck!
jack		Relax, Chief. We're leaving. You wanna toke?
wade		 You gotta be more careful about that shit. Gordon or one of those guys sees you smoking that wacky tabacky around me they'll expect me to bust you. And I'll be outta a job.
jack		Some job. Here, have a hit. Don't be such a hardass. I know you got problems, but everybody's got problems. 
wade		Not here.
jack		Well, c'mon, then. Get in and we'll take a little ride, my man.
jack		Got a job first thing in the morning, first day of season. Saturday I'll hunt for myself. Twombley something. - Er --
wade		Evan. He's a mucky-muck union official from Massachusetts. You're lucky.
jack		Don't know about lucky. The guy's a full-blown asshole. Pay's good, though. $100 a day. I got to guarantee a kill, of course. Which I can do. There's some monster bucks hiding out up there.
wade		How'd you get the job?
jack		Gordon, he's always got some angle working. He wants to keep Twombley happy, I'm his boy.
hettie		What's wrong with you?
wade		Toothache.  You should get close to him. Make yourself irreplaceable. Guy's loaded.
jack		Like you and Gordon?
wade		Right. The sonofabitch couldn't get along without me.
jack		 Yeah, he'd go broke tomorrow if you quit him.
wade		 Right!
jack		Bastard's got his high beams on.
wade		 Shit.
hettie		What?
wade		My ex-wife Lillian and her husband. That was them in the Audi that just passed us.
jack		Audi's a good car.
hettie		What's she up here for?
wade		Aw, shit, she's here to get Jill. Me and Jill had a little argument. Jack, I got to get back, get back to town. Move this thing, will you? See if you can get back to the Town Hall before they get there, okay?
jack		Piece of fucking cake.
wade		Lillian!
lillian		Where's Jill?
wade		Me and Jill, we just had a little spat. She felt kind of left out, I guess, from not knowing some of the new kids --
lillian		Where is she now? Is she in the truck with your friends?
wade		She told me she wanted to wait for you. Inside.
lillian		While you went off for a few beers with your friends? Is that Hettie Rodgers there, with whatzizname?
wade		Yeah.
lillian		She's grown up some, hasn't she?
wade		Oh, Jesus, lay off, will you? It looks like you've won this fucking round already, so lay off a little, for Christ's sake.
wade		Horner! Leave her be. This's got nothing to do with you, so just act like the chauffeur. Got it?
horner		Wade. Nobody wants any trouble.
wade		I don't want her to go, Lillian.
lillian		Don't cause a scene. No one's trying to win any 'rounds'. Don't make it any worse.
wade		I'm not making it any worse. You are. Me and Jill could've worked this thing out. It's normal, it's even normal for me to get a little touchy about it. Believe it or not. How do you think this makes me look, treating her like some tragic victim or something?
wade		Just wait till we're through, goddamnit!
wade		Don't you say a word. I didn't hit him. I'm not going to hit anybody.
margie		New hat?  Jill's up, I see.
wade		 For a while.
margie		How's she doing?
wade		Okay. She's fine.
margie		You two want to do anything tomorrow and need a third party, give me a call, okay? I'm off.
wickham		Like hell you are. Tomorrow's first day of deer season. I'll need you at least in the morning.
margie		 Well, that's that.
nick		 Take care, Wade.
wade		You be careful of that little bastard. He's dying to get in your pants, you know.
margie		 Don't worry. I can protect my virtue. I mean, c'mon, Wade, give me a break.
wade		See you tomorrow, maybe.
margie		You okay?
wade		Yeah.
wade		Tomorrow, Gordon.
lariviere		Watch this snow. It's coming down tonight.
twombley		It's not enough snow, not for tracking the bastards. No advantage there, kid.
jack		Don't worry, Mr. Twombley, I know where those suckers are. Rain or shine, snow or no snow. I know deer. We'll kill us a buck today. Guaranteed. Before ten.
twombley		Guaranteed, eh?
jack		Yep. Right about now the does are holing up in the brush piles. The bucks are right behind them and we're right behind the bucks.  This gun gets fired before ten o'clock. Whether it kills a deer or not is more less up to you. I'll put you inside 30, 35 yards of a buck the first four hours of the season. That's what you're paying me for, ain't it?
twombley		Damn straight!
jack		Done much shooting with that rifle yet?
twombley		 Tell you what. You get me close to a big buck by ten, kid, there's another hundred bucks in it.
jack		If you get it?
twombley		Yeah.
jack		You might not kill it.
twombley		You think so.
jack		You might gut-shoot it or cripple it for somebody else to find and tag. Can't guarantee that won't happen, especially with a new gun. I may have to shoot it.
twombley		You take care of your end, kid, I'll take care of mine.
jack		Mmm.
twombley		You understand what I'm saying? I want a deer, a dead one, not a cripple or whatthefuck.
jack		I get it.  No sweat. You'll get yourself a deer and you'll get him dead. And you'll have him by coffee time.
twombley		And you'll get your extra hundred bucks.
jack		 Wonderful!
lugene		Are you okay, Wade? What was wrong? Why were you holding everyone up?
wade		Did you see that sonofabitch in the BMW? He could've killed somebody.
lugene		Did you get his number?
wade		I know who it is.
lugene		Good. Who?
wade		Mel Gordon.
lugene		I still don't understand --
wade		From Boston. Evan Twombley's son-in- law -- he was driving. I know where they're headed. Up the lake, Agaway. The old man's out deer hunting with Jack Hewitt, so they probably got some big weekend party planned.
jack		Safety on?
twombley		I'm okay.
jack		Follow close. We'll cross the next meadow.
jack		I used to play ball.
twombley		Yeah?
jack		Drafted by the Red Sox.
twombley		You played for the Sox?
jack		Double A. New Britain.
twombley		Oh.
jack		Pitcher. "Best ballplayer to come out of New Hampshire since Carlton Fisk."
twombley		Really.
jack		They said.
twombley		Hmm.
jack		The only difference between me and that Clemens on TV is luck, shit luck.
twombley		What happened?
jack		Ruined my arm. Brought me along too fast. Why'd it have to be my fucking arm, I used to think. Then I realized it had to be somebody's fucking arm.
twombley		Hey, Hewitt! Slow the fuck down!
jack		Safety on?
twombley		Yeah.
jack		This way.
twombley		 Sun's gettin high.
jack		 Deers have ears too.
lariviere		Told you the snow was coming down. Take the grader.
wade		Where's the plow?
lariviere		Jimmy took it. Jack's out hunting with Evan Twombley.
wade		His son-in-law damn near killed me.
lariviere		 Huh?
wade		At the school crossing. In his BMW. Coulda hurt some kids. I'm gonna bust his ass.
lariviere		Don't go playing policeman.
wade		What am I -- a security guard? You hired me, you and your Selectman friends.
lariviere		You don't want the extra police pay?
wade		I'm not saying that.
lariviere		Get the grader. Go out 29 past Toby's. Don't let Lillian get to you. She didn't belong here. That's why she left.
wade		Fuck you.
lariviere		That's what I love about a small town. You know everybody.
jack		Stay here, stand where I am.
jack		Fresh tracks.  Deer shit. Big one. Here's your buck, Mr. Twombley. I'll circle around.
twombley		You only got a little while if you want your hundred bucks.
jimmy		How's it goin?
wade		Cold. How you think?
jimmy		Sorry about that. Why's it every year, come first snow, you get stuck with the grader?
wade		School. Traffic crossing.  I gotta quit these things.
jimmy		What we doing after? Wells?  Don't work too fast. Business the way it is, Gordon's probably looking to lay me off earlier than usual this year. He's got too much money as it is. Why's it always the little guy that gets kicked in the butt in hard times?
lacoy		...That was no pisser. I'll tell you who was a pisser. Glen Whitehouse. There was a real pisser. He was mean normal, but when he drank it was like he burst on fire. Canadian Club. Always drank CC. One Christmas there's this cord of wood out back he forgot about and he decides to have his two boys stack it. Except it's been out back two months and it's snowed and rained and froze so now the wood's all iced in. He takes the boys. He was drunk, of course.
pop		Move it! Daylight in the swamps!
rolfe		Pop, the kids are waiting for us.
wade		 Rolfe.
pop		A lesson in work and its rewards. You'll thank me for this one day.  Sally, turn off that TV!
wade		 Just do it.
pop		Atta-go.
rolfe		Please, Pop. Let's go back.
pop		What are you, a quitter?
lacoy		Beats me. That's all I heard. Wade would know more about it.  Wade! We were just talking about your Old Man. "What are you, a quitter!"
wade		Jesus, LaCoy, you got nothing better to do than sit around and tell stories. Pity is, some college student will come some day and believe this shit cause you're the only one dumb enough to talk to him. Take care.
pop		That was some job.
rolfe		We'll work at it everyday, promise.
pop		I think we made the point.
wade		 You just needed a drink.
pop		What was that?  You got something to say, say it! Say it!
wade		 Nothing.
pop		You no-good pup!
wade		It don't look right.
nick		What?
wade		The sign. It looks like it's spelled wrong or something.
nick		Fuck. Wade Whitehouse. It's people like you that keep this fucking town from prospering. Whatever somebody does to improve things around here, you gotta find fault with it.
wade		I'm not finding fault. It's a good idea, good for you, good for the town. Real modern too.
nick		This town sucks.
wade		Aw, c'mon, I was only saying there's something wrong with "Home Made Cooking", that's all. The sign's fine. What it says is wrong.
margie		Who needs it? Everybody who comes here has been coming for years so what they need a sign for?
margie		You okay?
wade		Yeah.
margie		I'm sorry about what I said.
wade		Said what?
margie		About you and Jill and needing a third person. She went back to Lillian?
wade		Forget it.
margie		 I'm sorry.
wade		I'm going to start one of those custody suits. I don't give a fucking shit. You know?
margie		You don't mean that.
wade		Yeah. I mean that.
margie		 No you don't. You're pissed, that's all. You ought to cool off for a few days then have a long talk with Lillian. You know? Work it out with her, tell her how you feel. Lillian's not out to get you.
wade		The hell she isn't. Lillian's been trying to nail me to a cross since the day I met her. I'm gonna hire me a fucking lawyer from Concord and get this thing, this divorce thing, rearranged. I've been thinking about it a lot. It's like she owns Jill or something. Nobody owns nobody, especially not kids. And I pay her.
nick		 Marg!
wade		That goddamned woman. Thinks she can cart Jill off and leave me alone like this. I'm more than pissed, Margie. I'm a whole lot more than pissed. I been that plenty and I know the difference. This is different.
nick		Marg! You got orders!
margie		Call me.
wade		 Tonight. Let's get together.
margie		Okay.
nick		You talked to Jack?
wade		Not since last night. He took a guy hunting.
nick		The fucker shot himself. Ker-bang! That's what it sounds like. Not on purpose. I assume accidental.
wade		 Jack?
nick		The other guy.
wade		Where... how'd you hear that?
nick		CB. Little while ago. One of the boys on the way in picked up Jack on the CB calling for state troopers. I figured you'd know what really happened. The fucking guy kill himself? This Twombley, who the fuck is he, anyhow?
wade		No, I... I've been out on the grader all morning. Twombley's summer people. Massachusetts. Friend of Gordon's. It was his idea for Jack to take him hunting.  I gotta go.
nick		He don't care for you.
margie		Stop being jealous.
lariviere		What's the hurry?
wade		A hunting accident. Jack and Twombley.
lariviere		Huh?
wade		I figured you already heard.
lariviere		 Twombley, Jesus. We got to get moving: I got to get up there. How would I know? C'mon, you drive. We'll take my truck.
lariviere		Fuck. Turn it off.  All you heard was there was some kinda accident?
wade		Twombley's shot. I heard that. Not Jack. He's okay, I assume.
lariviere		Fuck. You don't know how bad or anything?
wade		You mean Twombley?
lariviere		Yes, Wade, I mean Twombley. Put out that cigarette. Fuck. Fuck. Fuck.
wade		He more than likely just shot himself in the foot or something. That's what usually happens.
lariviere		I shoulda sent you instead of Jack.
wade		I wish you had. I'd rather be deer hunting instead of freezing my ass on that fucking grader.
lariviere		You ain't the hunter Jack is. And he can't drive the grader worth shit.
wade		Like hell.
lariviere		 That must've been Twombley. Jesus. I bet that was Twombley.
wade		You want me to follow them to Littleton?
lariviere		Let's get to the top and talk to Jack first. He'll know what happened. He fucking better. If this coulda been avoided, I'll put that kid's ass in a sling.
jack		You heard the news.
lariviere		I hear Twombley got shot.
jack		Yeah.
brown		Watch the dog, Wade. Takes a mind to, he'll tear your fucking head off.
lariviere		 Bad?
brown		Thirty-thirty at close range.
lariviere		Jesus.
wade		Will he make it?
brown		 D.O.A. Blew the bastard wide open. Had a hole in back you could put your head into. Pretty big hole in front too. You could've put your fist into that one.
lariviere		 You see it?
jack		Nope. Heard it. We wasn't far apart. I spotted this buck, then I heard the gun go off and Twombley was gone. I looked over the little cliff we was using for a stand and there the fucker was, deader'n shit. Called it right in.
lariviere		This is gonna be one fucking mess to clean up. Twombley's son-in-law and daughter are up the weekend. Didn't you say you'd seen him, Wade?
wade		I seen 'em. Near ran me over.
brown		You wanna tell 'em, Gordon? You knew the old man.
lariviere		What the fuck. My day's already ruined.  Give me the keys. You can go back with Jack. You still got a shitload of plowing to do.
wade		It ain't done, if that's what you mean.
lariviere		Something bugging you?
wade		Yeah. A few things.
lariviere		Well, right now we're not too interested. Finish up what you gotta do, then you can get bugged on your own time.
lariviere		 Might as well take the rest of the day off. You look sort of fucked up. You've been paid for the day, anyhow, right?
jack		Not exactly. I mean, he never paid me.
lariviere		You'll get your money. Don't talk to any newspapers about this. Twombley's a big deal down in Massachusetts, you know. Tell them your lawyer says you shouldn't comment.
jack		Lawyer? I don't need no lawyer, do I?
lariviere		No, of course not. Just say it, that's all.
wade		Where'd Twombley get shot?
jack		In the chest.
wade		 No, I mean whereabouts.
jack		 A half mile in, along the old lumber road.
wade		You bring him up yourself? That's a steep climb.
jack		The ambulance guys lugged him up.
wade		You stayed away?
jack		Yeah.
wade		Where'd you get the blood?
jack		What blood?
wade		On your sleeve.
jack		Musta... How'd I know? What're you doing, playing cop?
wade		I gotta make a report to Fish and Game. I was just wondering, that's all. What'd he do, to shoot himself, I mean?
jack		Who the fuck knows? Musta slipped or something. I just heard the gun go off.
wade		I never seen a man shot before. Not even in the service. Must be something.
jack		Well, I didn't actually see him do it. Like I said.
wade		Sure you did.
jack		What?
wade		Saw him do it?
jack		What the fuck you telling me, Wade? I never seen the guy get shot, I told you that.
wade		You musta seen him get shot. I know you did.
jack		Let's get the fuck outta here. You're not making any sense, man.
wade		There's your old twenty-gauge, and that there's the new Browning you was showing me last night. This must be Twombley's gun. Brand new. Very fancy tooling. Probably fired one time. It's a beautiful piece of work.  But what the hell, Jack, I guess you deserve it. Right's right.
jack		 Yeah.
wade		Twombley sure as hell won't be shooting it again.
jack		He sure as hell won't.
wade		Rolfe.
wade		Yeah, brother, look, I was calling cause -- has there been anything on TV in Boston about a hunting accident with a guy named Twombley, Evan Twombley?
wade		Yeah, I know him -- the kid that was with him. Maybe you do too. Jack Hewitt. He works for LaRiviere with me. He's my best friend.
wade		No, not tonight. I'm in bed too. I'm calling because I need you to listen. You're supposed to be a smart guy. You're a professor. I got this theory. Jack says he didn't see Twombley shot but he did.
wade		It'll come out Jack lied and the kid'll get hung for it.
wade		Who?
wade		No shit.
wade		Well, it was an accident.
wade		Lillian was here. In Lawford.
wade		The night before the shooting.
wade		Picked up Jill. She was supposed to visit for the weekend for Halloween. She wanted to go home.
wade		Jill. I was thinking of getting a lawyer. Maybe you can help me.
wade		A divorce lawyer. A custody lawyer. You know, 'cause of Jill.
wade		Yeah, I guess.
wade		I get to feeling like a whipped dog some days, Rolfe, and some night I'm going to bite back. I swear it.
wade		No, no, I haven't. Not really. I've growled a little, but I haven't bit.
wade		I was... I'm Wade Whitehouse. I was wondering, is your husband here?
wade		Well, yes, I'm... I want to say that I'm real sorry about your father, Mrs. Twombley.
wade		Well, yeah, I suppose. Sure. I just had a little business to settle with Mr. Gordon. I'm the local police officer.
wade		Oh, no. No, it's a... it's a traffic thing. No big deal.
mel gordon		Whitehouse. Next time, phone ahead.
wade		How's that?
mel gordon		I said, 'Next time, phone ahead.'
wade		Jesus Christ. Mr. Gordon, when I come all the way to serve somebody a summons, I don't call ahead for an appointment.
mel gordon		What the hell are you talking about?
wade		I'm issuing you a ticket. Moving violation.
mel gordon		Moving violation! I just got out of bed and you're telling me you're giving me a goddamn speeding ticket? Now? Are you nuts? Is that it, Whitehouse? You're nuts?
wade		 Yesterday morning, you passed a stopped school bus, which was flashing its lights, then you--
mel gordon		 Hold on!
wade		 Don't ever put your hands on me, Mr. Gordon.
mel gordon		You're talking about a goddamned ticket, from when I passed you at the school where you were deciding to hold up traffic while dreaming of becoming a traffic cop or something?
wade		Don't give me a hard time, Mr. Gordon. I'm just --
mel gordon		Doing your fucking job. I know. I watch television too.
wade		Yes. Here's your ticket.
mel gordon		 You get the hell out of my house now, asshole. And know this -- you are going to be a lucky asshole if I haven't got you fired before the day is out. I can do it with one phone call, and I'm pissed enough to do it now!
margie		Jack's sort of sensitive, I guess. More than most. But he'll be okay in a few weeks.
wade		There's something funny about that shooting. There's lots funny about it, actually.
margie		I heard he was drunk at Toby's last night and got in a fight with Hettie. He drove off without her...
wade		I'm sure, I'm positive it didn't happen the way Jack says it did.
margie		...Jack's turned into one of those men who are permanently angry. He used to be a sweet kid, but it's like, when he found out he couldn't play ball anymore, he changed. Now he's like everyone else.
wade		I've been wondering if maybe Jack shot Twombley, instead of Twombley shooting himself. I've been wondering maybe Jack shot him on purpose.
margie		Wade! How can you even think such a thing? Why would Jack Hewitt do that, shoot Twombley on purpose?
wade		Money.
margie		Jack doesn't need money.
wade		Everybody needs money. Except guys like Twombley and that sonofabitch son-in-law of his. People like that.
margie		Jack wouldn't kill for it. Besides, who would pay him?
wade		Lots of people. Guy like Evan Twombley, Boston union official, probably got lots of people want to see him dead. The Government's been investigating his links with the Mafia.
margie		 The Mafia hire Jack Hewitt?
wade		No, I just know Jack's lying about what happened. He just seemed -- I know that kid, what he's like inside. He's a lot like I was at his age.
margie		You wouldn't have done anything like that, shot someone for money.
wade		No. Not for money. But, if somebody'd given me half a damned excuse -- I was pretty fucked up, you know.
margie		 But not now.
margie		When you gonna get that tooth fixed?
wade		I can see what you looked like as a kid.
margie		You knew me as a kid.
wade		Yeah, but never what you looked like. Not really. Never really studied your face, like now. I was never able to see you as a kid when you were a kid until now, this way.
margie		What way?
wade		After making love. I like it. It's nice to see that in a grown-up person.
margie		It's nice.
margie		Don't you think, do you still think it's a good idea to press this custody thing -- just now?
wade		I'm her father -- supposed to be, but I'm not able to. Yes. Yes, I am. It may be the only thing in my life I've been so clear about wanting. Even if it takes a big fight.
margie		Then... I guess you have to.
wade		 There's another thing I've been thinking about. I don't know how you feel about the idea, Margie, because we've never talked about it. But I've been thinking lately, I've been thinking we should get married sometime. You and me.
margie		 Oh, Wade.
wade		I've been thinking about it, that's all.
margie		You've been married twice --
wade		It was to the same woman. I was just a kid...  It's not like a marriage proposal or anything, just a thought. Something for you and me to talk about and think about. You know?
margie		Alright. I'll think about it.
wade		Good.
pop		I've got sons, Goddamnit, oh my God, have I got sons! Wade? Rolfe? Elbourne? You love me boys? Do you love your Pop? Of course you do!
sally		Glen, stop --
pop		Oh, Jesus, Sally, you are such a Goddamned good person! Capital G. You are so much better than I am, I who am no good at all, you who are a truly good person, like a fucking saint! Beyond fucking com-pare.
pop		My big boy bursting out of the seams of his jeans!
sally		Don't!
pop		You little prick!
sally		Glen, stop!
margie		Did you tell them?  That we were coming?
wade		Don't you think it's proper for a fella to introduce his girl to his parents?
margie		I know your parents.
wade		I just want to pick up my divorce papers. For the lawyer. It won't take long.
margie		 Are you sure they're home? Did you call?
wade		The truck's here. Looks like they've stayed inside since the snow started.
wade		Strange.
margie		Think they're alright?
wade		Of course! I would've heard.
margie		How?
wade		I don't know for Christ's sake!
wade		Pop, Pop, you okay?
wade		Jesus, Pop, how can you stand the cold, dressed like that? Where's Ma?
pop		Sleeping.
wade		You remember Margie Fogg?
pop		From Wickham's. Been a while. Like some coffee?
wade		How you and Ma doing? Haven't seen you in town for a while.
pop		We're alright. Your Ma's sleeping. You want me to get her?
wade		Yeah.
wade		 Jesus. Nothing's changed around here.
wade		Where's Ma?
pop		She's coming.
margie		Have you been heating the house? Not just with the stove.
pop		There's a furnace.
margie		You're not using it today?
pop		It's broke I guess. There's an electric in the bedroom.
margie		Maybe Wade should take a look at it. Your pipes'll freeze.  Wade, would you do that?
wade		Ma? It's Wade. Can I come in?
wade		Oh, Lord.
pop		Coffee's perked.
margie		When did she die?
pop		Is...? She's dead then?
wade		Yeah.
pop		I checked on her. She had the electric heater. Cold don't bother her as much as me. Which is why I give her the heater.
wade		 Is there something wrong with the phone?
pop		In the living room.
wade		Why didn't you call and have the furnace fixed?
pop		Wade. I thought she was alright. Till this morning she was.
pop		It makes me sad.
margie		Can --?
pop		 Makes me sad it was her. Instead of me. I shoulda froze.
wade		 Shouldn't we get this show on the road, now that Rolfe's here?
wade		Pointless to stand around in church with nothing to do, I guess.
rolfe		What about Jill? Is Lillian bringing her?
margie		They'll be at the church and the cemetery.
wade		Anyone else want one? Rolfe?
rolfe		No thanks. I don't drink.
wade		Yeah. I forgot.
lariviere		How you holding up, Wade?
wade		I'm fine, fine.
lariviere		You Rolfe?  I remember you from high school. You're a teacher now? Harvard?
rolfe		B.U.
lariviere		I haven't seen you around. I don't suppose there's much reason for you to come this way.
rolfe		Well...
wade		This is nuts.
margie		 Wade.
pop		...goddamned hair on her head.
pop		Not a one of you is worth a goddamned hair on that good woman's head!
wade		Pop! Don't do this now, Pop.
lariviere		Maybe I'll head on over to the church.
wade		Listen, it's no big deal, Pop.
pop		 Come on, smart guy. Tell how it's no big deal. Tell me how a single one of you is worth a single hair on that woman's head.
pop		Go fuck yourself!
rolfe		Wade, just leave it.
pop		 Listen to your little brother. 'Wade, just leave it.' Candy-asses. All of you. That's what I've got for children. Candyasses. 'Wade, just leave it.' Praise the Lord! 'Just leave it!'
wade		If you ever touch her again, I'll kill you. I swear it.
jill		Dad.
wade		 I'm glad you're here. Can you stay for a while?
wade		You ever come to your father's grave anymore?
lillian		No, not anymore. It's too... it's too far.
wade		We should talk.
lillian		We've done all our talking, Wade.
wade		It's just...
lillian		Let the past be.  I'm sorry about your mother. I liked her. You never know how much women like that suffer. It's like they live their lives with the sound turned off -- and then they're gone.
jill		 Mom.
lillian		She has an ice-skating lesson at four.
jill		I'm taking ice-skating, Daddy!
wade		Let's dig out Pop's truck before the skin of the snow freezes up.
rolfe		What about Margie?
wade		What about her?
rolfe		Well, do you still plan to get married?
wade		Yeah. She'll probably quit her job and stay out here with Pop. We can't leave him alone here, he'll set the damn place on fire. With Jill here a lot, it'll be good to have Margie around. Things are going to change in that department, by the way. I got a custody lawyer in Concord. I'm gonna see him tomorrow. All hell's gonna break loose, but it's worth it.
wade		I want to let the gas run out. I don't want the bastard driving drunk, and he's always drunk now. After, we'll hide the keys.
rolfe		Anything new about the shooting? Twombley?
wade		 I guess it was an accident, like everybody thinks.
rolfe		Want to know what I think happened?
wade		Find them everywhere. 
rolfe		I think your first response to the Twombley shooting was the correct one.
wade		Which is?
rolfe		That it wasn't an accident.
wade		Then who shot him?
rolfe		Well, your friend, I think. Jack Hewitt.
wade		Motive. You gotta have a motive.
rolfe		Money.
wade		Who'd pay him that kind of money? Not the mob. They got their own guys. Specialists.
rolfe		 They wouldn't deal with a guy like Jack. Who else benefits if Twombley is suddenly dead?
wade		 I don't know. You tell me.
rolfe		Okay. It's likely there are people in the union who don't want Twombley to testify. They probably include his son-in-law who's vice-president and will probably be the next president. I read that in the papers. What's his name, Mel Gordon?
wade		Yeah, the guy with the BMW I told you about. I did, didn't I?
rolfe		Here's my theory. Twombley, unaware of illegal union loans or whatever, starts nosing around cause of the investigation and finds out. Finds out his son-in-law is involved.
wade		So Mel Gordon wouldn't want a professional hit. That'd make the feds dig deeper. He wants an accident.
rolfe		A hunting accident is perfect.
wade		Shit, around here, you shoot somebody in the woods, you say it was an accident, you get fined fifty bucks and your hunting license lifted. Jack's probably saying the guy shot himself cause he ain't got his deer yet and don't want his license pulled.
wade		It's too neat. Things ain't that neat. It makes me mad. That somebody can pay to kill somebody, his own father-in-law, and not be punished for it. Don't that piss you off?
rolfe		Not particularly.
wade		Right's right, goddamnit! Don't you care what's right?
rolfe		I care about what happened. The truth. I'm a student of history, remember?
rolfe		I was thinking about that story you told me, about Pop and chopping the firewood out of the ice and after.
wade		Yeah.
rolfe		I hate to disappoint you, but I don't think it happened.
wade		Of course it happened. Why would I lie about it?
rolfe		It may have happened, but not the way you said.
wade		You think I wouldn't remember a thing like that?
rolfe		It wasn't me. I wasn't there, but I heard about it. When I heard about it, it was about Elbourne.
wade		We'd have to go digging in Vietnam to ask him.
rolfe		And Elbourne and Mom took you to the doctor and told him you fell from the hay loft.
wade		 Well, I never heard that one.
rolfe		I remember clearly cause when I heard I became real careful around Pop. I was a careful child and I became a careful adult, but at least I wasn't afflicted by that man's violence.
wade		 That's what you think.
rolfe		I gotta head back. It's a long drive.
lariviere		Put out that fucking cigarette!
lariviere		Not there, asshole. Flush it!
wade		Morning, Gordon.
jack		I'm fucking out of here.
wade		Lawford?
jack		Out of this fucking job. This job sucks. Working outside in the winter sucks.
jack		Open the door, will ya?
wade		Why don't you quit now, you want out so bad?
jack		Open the door. We're late.
wade		I mean it -- you got enough money now. Head out for California. Surf's up, Jack, and you're digging wells in the snow.
jack		What do you mean I got money? I'm as broke as you.
wade		Looney Tunes, Jack. Fucking Looney Tunes!
mel gordon		The boss in?
wade		I screwed up the divorce. I agreed with everything she said. I wanted her to like me. I just want to be a good father.
hand		It would help if you were married, if there was someone at home while you work.
wade		I plan to. Soon.
hand		How soon?
wade		This spring.
hand		Good. It would help if there were some drug or alcohol abuse on the part of your ex-wife. Sexual problems upsetting to the child.
wade		It looks pretty hopeless, don't it?
hand		No, not exactly. I'll look at the divorce decree, see if we can get it redrawn. Interview your daughter. Jill, right?
wade		Yes.
hand		Fine. I'll need a $500 retainer. You can mail it.
wade		Jesus. How much... how much will the whole thing cost?
hand		Hard to say. If we go for custody, depositions, psychiatric evaluations, it could drag on. Ten or twelve thousand dollars. She could win on appeal. If we just want to get the visitation rights redrawn, assuming they're unduly restrictive, it wouldn't be more than twenty-five hundred.
wade		Oh.
hand		 You might be better off legally as well as financially to just go for the --
wade		Yeah. I know. The custody suit thing was just my getting back at her. I'm not as dumb as I look. Whatever you say. I love my daughter.  I'll send you the five hundred.
wade		Sorry about the long lunch. My clutch is going out again.
lariviere		You ever think of getting a new car, Wade?
wade		On what you pay me?
lariviere		Elaine! Call Chub Meritt and have him pick up Wade's car, fix the clutch.
lariviere		 Use the pickup. I'll bill it to the town. You're the town police officer and the town police officer should have a decent car. You want a new car or not?
wade		What do I have to do for it?
lariviere		Nothing, Wade, I've been thinking. You don't get enough appreciation around here and it's time we changed things a little.
wade		I saw Mel Gordon in here this morning.
lariviere		So?
wade		He say anything about the summons I tried to give him? Sonofabitch wouldn't accept it.
lariviere		Wade, that wasn't smart. Going out right after the man's father-in-law shot himself. Let it go. Call it a favor to me.
wade		You? Why?
lariviere		Mel's doing some business with me. It's nice to do favors for people you do business with. He was in a hurry. No big deal.
wade		That was before Twombley was shot. Before he knew.
lariviere		What's the difference? Take my truck, take a rest -- stop worrying about Mel Gordon. Have you decided what to do with your old man's place -- he going to stay there?
wade		 Want to buy?
lariviere		Don't light that in here. I'm allergic.
wade		I won't. You interested?
lariviere		Maybe.
wade		You and Mel Gordon?
lariviere		Could be.
wade		 Always count on old Wade for a good screwing. Why should I always pay more, sell cheap? Why should you guys make all the money. You and Mel and Jack. Right's right.
lariviere		 Out! Out!
jack		You crazy sonofabitch! You'll sink us both! Get off the fucking ice! Get off!
jack		I'll shoot you, Wade, I swear it! I'll fucking shoot you dead if you don't move away from that truck!
jack		Don't move! I'll shoot you dead if you move!
nick		Your father's in back, Wade. Marg had to babysit him. She moved in with you, huh?  What happened?
pop		Ah, the prodigal son.
nick		About fucking time.
pop		Look, got me a new job, second cook and bottle washer!
margie		What happened?
wade		Jesus Christ, Pop, let's go home. I got waylaid. Sorry.
pop		The fuck you got waylaid. You follow your prick around like it was your nose.
nick		 Get him out of here. It was funny at first, but I'm tired.
margie		There's clothes in the back.
pop		Let's go home? What home is that? Your home? My home? Let's have a talk about that. You're fucking sly, Wade. Your mother's dead so she can't make any excuses for you anymore! You gotta deal with me! No more sugar tit, asshole.
wade		Pop, for Christ's sake!
pop		You think you can take me now? Come on, try.
nick		Marg, get out of this. Fast.
margie		I can't.
wade		I wish you would die.
margie		Stop it! Stop it! Just stop it!
wade		Then you accidentally see your body, or your face, or whatever, and you don't know who the hell it belongs to. Strange. It's the business with the old man, I know, and how incredibly pissed I was at him, and also chasing Jack Hewitt like that, and the Goddamned truck going through the ice, not to mention Margie's being so upset -- one thing on top of another.
wade		But you gotta hear this. You won't believe it. Mel Gordon had come by to visit LaRiviere and so now I'm in his office.
lariviere		He's on to us!
jack		Shit! What are we gonna do?
lariviere		Maybe I can buy him off. I gotta talk to Mel.
jack		You can't buy Wade off.
lariviere		We bought you.
jack		That was me.
alma		Wade! Come in! Have a cup of coffee.
wade		You got yourself a computer, Alma.
alma		Been putting my files into it. You take sugar and milk?
wade		No. Black.
alma		Are you alright, Wade?
wade		Yeah, sure. Why? I got this damned tooth, I got a few things bugging me, like everybody else. But I'm okay.
alma		Well, you look... sad. Upset. I don't mean to pry. I'm sorry about your mother. It was a nice funeral.
wade		Alma, I think there's some dirty business going on in this town.
alma		Always has been.
wade		This is maybe worse than you and I are used to.  What I'm talking about, I'm talking about murder. Among other things.
alma		Who?
wade		Evan Twombley, the union boss who got shot. Somebody murdered him.
alma		Who?
wade		You know Jack Hewitt, the kid I work with?
wade		...if Jack told the truth, he could be free by the time he's my age.
alma		Sometimes things are simpler than you think. Let me ask you a question.
wade		You don't believe me?
alma		 About Jack? No. Have you checked out the tax bill on your father's farm lately?
wade		I know he's due for the last two years. I was thinking of paying it when the insurance comes in.
alma		Has anybody offered to buy it?
wade		As a mater of fact, yes. LaRiviere.
alma		This is all the real estate transactions in this town the last year. Most of it unused land. Most of it for little more than the back taxes owed.
alma		This is from three years ago. Some difference, huh?
wade		 What is the Northcountry Development Association?
alma		I went down to Concord to check it out. The president is Mel Gordon. The vice-president and treasurer is Gordon LaRiviere. Those boys are buying up the mountain, Wade. $364,000 this year. I believe that's out of LaRiviere's league.
wade		Twombley involved?
alma		No.
wade		He musta found out. They had to get rid of him. And Jack'll get blamed.
alma		All the figures show is that Gordon LaRiviere is going to be a very rich man using his position as Selectman. In a year or two, you won't recognize this town.
wade		You sneaky sonofabitch! I've got your number now, Gordon! All these years I actually thought you were a decent man.  Can you believe that?
lariviere		Wade, you're done.  Let me have the shop keys.
wade		 Jesus Christ, Jack, don't you see that?
lariviere		The key, Wade.
wade		Yeah, you can have the key. It's the key that's kept me locked to you all these years. I give it to you with pleasure.  I've got to call my brother.
chick		The good news is we haven't got to your car yet. The bad news --
wade		Just tell me when you'll have it fixed.
chick		-- the bad news is there's a problem with Gordon's truck what somebody drove through the ice last night. Figured you'd know something about that, Wade.
wade		 Yeah. I know about that.
chick		LaRiviere says he ain't gonna pay for the fixin' of your car. A couple hundred for the clutch. I got some more bad news. Wanna hear it?
wade		Tell me.
chick		Chub says you're fired.
wade		He can't fire me. LaRiviere already did that this morning.
chick		He's a Selectman. The town. He said to tell you to turn your badge in and clean out your office. I'm supposed to pull the CB and police light out of your car. They're town property.
wade		What do you mean, you can't take me today? I told you --
margie		What on earth is happening to you? Why are you acting this way?
wade		It's my tooth! My fucking tooth! I can't even think anymore because of it.
margie		I heard you talking. You got fired this morning, didn't you?
wade		Look, that's temporary, believe me. There's so much shit gonna hit the fan the next few days, my getting fired by LaRiviere and Merritt won't matter a bit.
wade		I'll get another job. People are going to need me. After this is over, they'll make me into a Goddamned hero. You wait: you'll see, I'll deliver. I'll be the best father who ever lived. You need me, even Pop, for Christ's sake, he needs me. This town needs me. Maybe now they think they can send me howling into a corner like a kicked dog, but my God, it'll be different soon.
wade		Leave the bottle out!
lillian		Wait there. She'll be right out.  Is there snow on the ground up in Lawford?
wade		Yeah, lots.
lillian		 See. Get your boots.
wade		Hi honey.
jill		 Hi.
lillian		Have her back tomorrow night by six.
wade		No problem. Look, I...
lillian		You make me sick. I can't believe you've sunk so low.
wade		Low as what? What have I done? It's bad to want to see your own daughter?
lillian		You know what I'm talking about. For what you're doing to me and to the child you say you love so much. Love. You won't get away with it.
lillian		Bye, honey! Call me tonight if you want.
jill		Are we going in this?
wade		Yeah. My car's in the shop. This'll be fine.
jill		It's pretty old.
wade		It belongs to Pop.
jill		Pop?
wade		Grandpa. My father. It's his.
jill		Oh.
wade		 How about a Big Mac?
jill		Mommy won't let me eat fast food. You know that. It's bad for you.
wade		C'mon, we can always sneak a Big Mac. And a cherry turnover. Your favorite. What do you say?
jill		No.
wade		What do you want, then?
jill		Nothing.
wade		You can't have nothing, Jill. We need lunch. Mr. Pizza?
jill		Same thing, Daddy. Mommy says --
wade		I know what Mommy says. I'm in charge today, though.
jill		Okay. So we'll get what you want. What do you want?
wade		Nothing, I guess. I guess I can wait till we get home. Maybe we'll stop by Wickham's for a hamburger when we get to Lawford. That suit you? You always like Wickham's.
jill		 Okay.
wade		Fine.
wade		Oh, Jesus, Jill, I'm sorry. What's the matter, honey?
wade		Please don't cry. Please, honey.
jill		 What are you sorry for?
wade		I don't know. For the food business. I guess. I just thought, you know, we'd sneak a Big Mac on Mommy, like we used to.
jill		I want to go home.
wade		 You can't.
jill		 That's illegal, you know.
wade		I know.
jill		You're a policeman.
wade		Nope. Not anymore. I'm nothing anymore.
jill		Oh.
wade		Jillie, you want a cheese grilled sandwich?
nick		It's called a grilled cheese sandwich, you dub.
wade		Jill, please, it's alright. Nothing happened.
jill		I want to go home.
wade		 Okay, let's go home, then.
nick		 Jack Hewitt, he's looking for you. Wants you to clear your stuff out of his office in Town Hall.
wade		His office. You mean my old office.
nick		Well, I guess -- that's what he said.
wade		He got his deer yet?
nick		No, he's out now. Somewhere on the mountain. I'd stay away from him if I were you. He's real pissed.
wade		Going somewhere, Margie?
margie		I'm just cleaning out some of this stuff that's built up. For the rummage sale. And some things for the cleaners. And the laundromat.
wade		Don't lie to me. You're leaving me, I can see that.
margie		Don't be silly. Hi, Jill.
wade		 Marg.
margie		 Leave me alone! Leave me alone!
jill		Leave her alone! Leave her alone!
margie		 Get in.
jill		I want to go home. Will you take me home?
margie		Yes.
pop		 Yeah, you goddamn sonofabitch, I know you. You're a goddamn fucking piece of my heart!
wade		 So fuck you. Fuck you.
pop		Nah-nah-naw! You done done finally done it! Like a man done it. Done it right. I love you, you mean sonofabitch!
wade		Love! What the fuck do you know about love?
pop		Love! I'm made of love!
wade		Call it what you want.
pop		Everything you know is from me.
wade		Yeah.
pop		Bang!
wade		You and me.
pop		Where the Christ you going? You sonofabitch, you leave my fucking truck where it is! I need... Give me the Goddamn keys! I need to get me to town!
wade		Crawl!
pop		Nothing in the fucking house to drink. Not a fucking thing. My house, my money, my truck -- stolen!
wade		I don't know you. My goddamn father and I don't know you.
wade		I know you now. I love you too.
wade		 Joke. You scared me.
****Dialogues from script :agnes_of_god.txt****

mother superior		Agnes!... Agnes...
paramedic		I'm just going to put something here to stop the bleeding. Excuse me Sister. She'll be fine.
reporter		Here they are now.
leveau		Martha, it's you.
martha		What about Roger? He's free.
eve		They want a woman.
lyon		All you have to do is meet with her once or twice... then tell the court she's insane.
martha		Are you dictating my position to me? We're getting into some sticky legal territories here.
eve		Martha, all we're saying is, no-one wants this to come to trial, not the Church, not the Crown... least of all me.
martha		Eve, she strangled a baby!
eve		Nobody is interested in sending a nun to prison.
leveau		We're not telling you what to decide Martha. We're not even telling you to take this.
lyon		Is there any reason why you feel you shouldn't take it?
martha		Today's my birthday. I always make bad decisions on my birthday.
leveau		Happy birthday.
man		 ???
martha		Bonjour, I'm Doctor Martha Livingston, I...
mother superior		 Most people find it uncomfortable.
martha		Well... I...
mother miriam		 I'm afraid the word brings up the most unpleasant connatations in this day and age...
martha		Yes... I...
mother miriam		You can call me Sister.
martha		... Thank you.
mother miriam		You must have tons of questions. You may smoke if you want to. Just don't tell any of the Sisters.
martha		You were a smoker?
mother miriam		Two packs a day.
martha		I can beat that.
mother miriam		Unfiltered.
martha		Who knew about Agnes' pregnancy?
mother miriam		No-one.
martha		How did she hide it from the other nuns?
mother miriam		She undressed alone... she bathed alone.
martha		Is that normal?
mother miriam		Yes.
martha		How did she hide it during the day?
mother miriam		 She could have hidden a machine gun in here if she had wanted to.
martha		Didn't she have any physical examinations
mother miriam		We're examined once a year. Her pregnancy fell in between the doctor's visits.
martha		Who was the father?
mother miriam		I haven't a clue.
martha		What man had access to her?
mother miriam		None as far as I know.
martha		Was there a priest?
mother miriam		Yes, but I...
martha		What's his name?
mother miriam		Father Martineau, but I don't see him as a candidate.
martha		Could there have been anyone else?
mother miriam		 Obviously there was.
martha		And you didn't try to find out who?
mother miriam		 Believe me, I've done everything possible short of asking Agnes.
martha		Why haven't you asked her?
mother miriam		 She can't even remember the birth. Do you think she'd admit to the conception?
martha		Look, someone gave her the baby.
martha		Why do you think that?
mother miriam		Don't ask me those questions dear, I'm not the patient.
martha		Well I'm the doctor. I'm the one who's going to decide what is, or is not important here.
mother miriam		Look doctor, I don't know how to tell you this politely, but I don't approve of you. Not you personally...
martha		The science of psychiatry.
mother miriam		 Exactly. I want you do deal with Agnes as speedily and as easily as possible. She won't hold up under any sort of cross examination.
martha		 I am not with the Inquisition.
mother miriam		And I am not from the Middle Ages. I know what you are! I don't want that mind cut open.
martha		Hello. I'm Doctor Livingston. I've been asked to talk to you. May I?
agnes		Yes.
martha		You have a lovely voice.
agnes		No I don't.
martha		I just heard you.
agnes		That wasn't me.
martha		Was it Sister Marguerite?
agnes		No I'm not.
martha		Hasn't anyone ever told you that before?
agnes		Let's talk about something else.
martha		What would you like to talk about.
agnes		I don't know.
martha		Anything... may I sit down?
agnes		Yes.
martha		First thing that comes to your mind?
agnes		God!    But there's nothing to say about God.
martha		Second thing that comes to your mind.
agnes		Love.
martha		Have you ever loved anyone?
agnes		Yes.
martha		Who?
agnes		Everyone.
martha		Well, who in particular?
agnes		Right now?
martha		Uh huh.
agnes		I love you.
martha		 Agnes, have you ever loved another man... other than, Jesus Christ?
agnes		Yes.
martha		Who?
agnes		 Oh, there are so many.
martha		Well do you love... do you love Father Martineau?
agnes		Oh, yes!
martha		Do you think he loves you?
agnes		Oh, I know he does.
martha		He's told you?
agnes		No. But... when I look into his eyes, I can tell.
martha		You've been alone together?
agnes		Yes.
martha		Often?
agnes		At least once a week.
martha		And you like that?
agnes		Oh, yes.
martha		Where do you meet?
agnes		 In the confessional.
martha		Agnes, do ever see Father Martineau outside the...
agnes		You want to talk about the baby don't you?
martha		Would you like to talk about it?
agnes		I never saw any baby... I think they made it up.
martha		Why should they?
agnes		I don't know.
martha		Do you remember the night they said it came?
agnes		No. I was sick.
martha		How were you sick?
agnes		Something I ate.
martha		Did it hurt?
agnes		Yes.
martha		Where?
agnes		Down... there.
martha		And what did you do?
agnes		I went to my room.
martha		And what happened?
agnes		I got sicker.
agnes		I fell asleep.
martha		In the middle of all the pain?
agnes		Yes.
martha		Where did the baby come from?
agnes		What baby?
martha		The baby they made up.
agnes		From their heads...
martha		Is that where they say it came from... ?
agnes		No, they say it came from the waste paper basket!
martha		Where'd it come from before that?
agnes		From God.
martha		After God... before the waste-paper basket.
agnes		I... I don't understand.
martha		Agnes, how are babies born?
agnes		Don't you know?
martha		Yes I do,    but I want you to...
agnes		 I don't understand what you're talking about... you want to talk about the baby... everybody wants
martha		Then let's talk about something else...
agnes		 No... no, I'm tired of talking, I've been talking for weeks, nobody believes me when I tell them anything... nobody listens to me.
martha		 Agnes...
agnes		 No... no, I don't want to answer any more questions.
martha		Would you like to ask them?
agnes		 What do you mean?
martha		Just that... you ask and I'll answer.
agnes		Anything?
martha		 Anything.
agnes		What's your real name?
martha		Martha Louise Livingston.
agnes		Are you married?
martha		No.
agnes		Would you like to be?
martha		Not at the moment, no.
agnes		Do you have any children?
martha		No.
agnes		Would you like some?
martha		I can't have them any more.
agnes		Why not?
martha		 I've stopped menstruating
agnes		Why do you smoke?
martha		Does it bother you?
agnes		No questions.
martha		Smoking is an    obsession with me. Maybe one day    I'll become obsessed with something    else, then I'll stop smoking... Do    you have any more questions?
agnes		One.
martha		What?
agnes		Where do you think babies come from?
martha		From their mothers and fathers of course. Before that, I... I don't know.
agnes		Well I think they come from... angel lights on their mothers chest and whispers into her ear. That makes good babies start to grow. And bad babies come from when a fallen angel squeezes in down there, and they start to grow, grow, till they come out down there. I don't know where good babies come out. And you can't tell the difference... except bad babies cry a lot... and they make their fathers go away... and their mothers get very ill... die sometimes.
martha		Do you know a Marie?
agnes		No... do you?
martha		Why should I?
agnes		I don't know.
mother miriam		Well... what do you think? Is she totally bananas or merely slightly off centre... or maybe she's perfectly sane and just a very good liar.
martha		What's your opinion?
mother miriam		I believe Agnes is different.
martha		From other nuns...  Yes I... I've noticed.
mother miriam		From other people!  I believe she is not crazy, nor is she lying.
martha		How could she have a baby and know nothing of sex or birth?
mother miriam		Because she's an innocent. She's a slate that's hasn't been touched except by God.
mother miriam		 In her case it isn't. She's had very little schooling. Her mother kept her home almost all the time and when her mother died Agnes came here, to us. She's never been out there Doctor. She's never seen a movie or a television show. She's never even read a book.
martha		If she's so innocent, how come she murdered a child?
mother miriam		She didn't! This is manslaughter, not murder. She didn't consciously kill that baby. She'd lost a lot of blood. She was unconscious by the time we got to her.
martha		So, someone else could have done it.
mother miriam		No... not in the eyes of the police.
martha		And in your eyes?
mother miriam		I've already told you what I thought.
martha		That she was unconscious, yes! So someone easily could have come in the room and killed the...
mother miriam		You don't really believe something like that happened do you?
martha		It's possible isn't it?
mother miriam		Who?
martha		One of the other nuns found out about the baby and... and wanted to avoid a scandal.
mother miriam		That's absurd!
martha		That possibility never occurred to you?
mother miriam		No-one knew about Agnes' pregnancy. No-one. Not even Agnes.
martha		Is Father Martineau in please?
housekeeper		 ???
martha		 ???
housekeeper		 Wipe your feet.
housekeeper		Pere Martineau...  ???
father martineau		 They arise at five in the morning... and they're in bed by nine at night. Even if a man could get to them, he would probably find them praying. That's why I see that the real question is not only how he got in, but when.
martha		And you're the only man to see them?
father martineau		I promise you Doctor, even if I had the inclination, how could I possibly catch her? She would have to be a very slow and patient nun.  Ah no... they're a very special and rare people those Sisters. Only a few of them left in this modern world, consecrated to the praise of God.
martha		Hello, Mama  ... brought you something.
mama		Shut up, I'm trying to watch this.
martha		It's your favourite...
mama		Who are you?
martha		It's Martha, Mama.  There you go.
mama		Marie brings me icecream too you know. Chocolate... my favourite.
martha		I thought cherry-vanilla was your favourite.
mama		Not any more... now I like chocolate.
martha		 Did you have a good week Mama. Are they treating you all right?
mama		You know Martha never comes to see me. You watch it, she's going straight to hell... after all the things she said to me. Then she marries that son of a bitch of a Frenchman... has an abortion. I knew that one wouldn't work out. Not like you Marie. You got married to God.
martha		 Marie's dead Mama.
mama		I remember when you    was a little girl Marie. You come back    from the movies and you'd say - Mama    that ending was so sad... and I'd tell    you they had all the happy endings locked    away in a vault in Hollywood.  And you believed me.
martha		Mama, that wasn't Marie, that was me!
mama		 Who are you?
martha		I... I'm Martha, Mama.
sister anne		The convent was built for over fifty. Not many of us left... just us and the chickens.
martha		How do you survive?
sister anne		Oh, we own the land around here. But we rent it out. We keep a few acres for ourselves,  some wheat, corn, some vegetables.
martha		Well that's a lot of land. You must have help. Do you have field hands that help you?
sister anne		No. We work the land alone. No-one but Sister Marguerite and I are permitted contact with the public.
martha		Sister Anne, which was Agnes' room?
sister anne		Oh that one there, in the corner.
martha		The one up on the third floor?
sister anne		Yes.
martha		Uh huh.
mother miriam		This convent is locked solid. The only one that has a key is Sister Marguerite and she wouldn't let Christ in after dark.
martha		Well, it's been known to happen in the day too. Maybe Agnes went to him.
mother miriam		Oh come on, you've talked to her. She doesn't even know how babies are born, let alone made.
martha		When did you first learn about her... innocence, the way she thinks?
mother miriam		Shortly after she came to us.
martha		And you weren't shocked?
mother miriam		I was appalled, just as you are now.
martha		And what happened?
mother miriam		She stopped eating completely...
mother miriam		Agnes, it has come to my attention that you have stopped eating. Why is this? AGNES  I've been commanded by God.
mother miriam		 He talked to you Himself?
agnes		No.
mother miriam		Through someone else?
agnes		Yes.
mother miriam		Who?
agnes		I can't say.
mother miriam		Why?
agnes		She'd punish me.
mother miriam		One of the other Sisters?
agnes		No.
mother miriam		Who?
agnes		 Because I'm getting fat.
mother miriam		Oh, for Heaven's sake.
agnes		I am, there's too much flesh on me.
mother miriam		Agnes...
agnes		I'm a blimp.
mother miriam		Why does it matter whether you're fat or not...
agnes		Because...
mother miriam		... You needn't worry about being attractive here.
agnes		I do, I have to be attractive to God.
mother miriam		He loves you the way you are.
agnes		No he doesn't. He hates fat people.
mother miriam		Who told you this?
agnes		It's a sin to be fat.
mother miriam		Why?
agnes		Look at the statues, they're thin.
mother miriam		Agnes...
agnes		That's because they're suffering... suffering is beautiful, I want to be beautiful.
mother miriam		Who tells you these things?
agnes		Christ said it in the Bible, he said - suffer the little children, I want to suffer like a little child.
mother miriam		 That's not what he meant.
agnes		I...    I am a little child but my body keeps    getting bigger and soon I... I won't    be able to fit in, I... I won't be able    to squeeze into Heaven.
mother miriam		Agnes dear, Heaven is not a place where...
agnes		No... I mean... I mean look at these. I've got to lose weight, I'm a blimp.
mother miriam		Oh my dear child.
agnes		 God blew up the Hindenburg. He'll blow me up, that's what she said...
mother miriam		Who?
agnes		Mommy I'll get bigger and bigger every day and then I'll pop but... but if I stay little it won't happen.
mother miriam		Your mother tells you this?... Agnes your mother is dead.
agnes		But she watches... she listens.
mother miriam		Nonsense, I'm your mother now and I want you to eat.
agnes		I'm not hungry.
agnes		No I don't... the host is enough.
mother miriam		My dear, I don't think a communion wafer has the recommended daily allowance of anything.
agnes		Of God.
mother miriam		 Yes, of God.
agnes		I'm being punished.
mother miriam		Why?
agnes		I don't know.
mother miriam		Dear Jesus...
agnes		It started this morning and I can't get it to stop.
martha		Why didn't you take her to a doctor?
mother miriam		It was healed by the following morning and she started eating again...
martha		She had a... a hole in the palm of her hand! She could have bled to death.
martha		She has it now.
mother miriam		I know what you're thinking, she's a hysteric pure and simple.
martha		Not simple, no.
mother miriam		I saw it. Clean through the palm of her hand. Do you think hysteria could do that?
martha		It's being doing it for centuries. She's not unique, she's just another victim.
mother miriam		God's victim. That's her innocence. She belongs to God.
martha		And I intend to take her away from Him. That's what you're afraid of isn't it?
mother miriam		You bet I am.
larry		Here you are. Don't let anyone know where you got them.
agnes		Last Tuesday, I didn't eat all of my lima beans... hid them under my spoon.
father martineau		Yes...
agnes		 I thought... thoughts... about...
father martineau		Speak up, I can hardly hear you.
agnes		 I thought ugly thoughts about Sister Marguerite.
leveau		Would you tell me why the hell this is taking so long.
martha		Look there are a lot of unanswered questions here.
lyon		Martha, your job is to diagnose, not to heal and play detective. Who do you think you are?
martha		I know my job. Don't tell me my job Lyon. My duty as a doctor is to...
eve		Martha, you have to make a decision on her sanity as quickly as possible and not interfere with due process of law.
martha		No... no, excuse me Eve. As quickly as I see fit.
eve		The longer you take to make a decision, the more difficult it will be for us.
martha		Why?
eve		The bishop is breathing down our necks.
martha		And the sooner she goes to prison, the better off she'll be?
leveau		 ???
martha		I don't believe this. I don't bloody believe this.
lyon		Well the bishop will be very upset about this.
martha		I'm fighting for this woman's life, not some bloody bishop.
martha		You liked Sister Paul?
agnes		She was kind to me. She told me I was beautiful.
martha		 What else did she tell you?
agnes		She said all of God's angels would want to sleep beside me if they could. I liked that.
martha		Where's that?... I promise I won't tell, would you take me?
martha		Sister Paul was in her eighties?   Did she climb up here often?
agnes		No, only when she felt like it. She brought me up here last winter and the next day she died.
martha		 No wonder... wait... Agnes... Agnes how do you feel about babies?
agnes		Oh, they frighten me, I'm afraid I'll drop them. They have a soft spot on their heads and if you drop them so they land on their heads they become stupid. I was dropped on my head, that's why I don't understand things.
martha		Like what?
agnes		 Numbers... you can spend your whole life counting and never reach the end.
martha		 I don't understand them either. Do you suppose I was dropped on my head?
agnes		I hope not. It's a terrible thing to be dropped on your head.
martha		Oh, I've got to give up smoking. Agnes ... wait a minute... Agnes slow down.
agnes		She said you could see the whole world from up here. But it looks much better far away than it looks close up.
martha		Beautiful...
agnes		And sometimes I get under here... it makes a wonderful sound.
martha		What happens if the bell rings and you're under there?
agnes		Oh, it's even more wonderful then.
martha		It's like hiding from my mother when I was a little girl.
agnes		Where did you go?
martha		Oh, no place as wonderful as this. Agnes... have you ever thought of leaving the convent for something else?
agnes		No. There is nothing else. Just being here at night helps me sleep.
martha		You have trouble sleeping?
agnes		I get headaches. Mommy did too... oh, but she wasn't stupid. She knew things that nobody else knew.
martha		What things?
agnes		She knew what was going to happen to me. That's why she hid me away.
martha		How did she know that?
agnes		Somebody told her.
martha		Who?
agnes		I don't know.
martha		Agnes...
agnes		You'll laugh.
martha		I promise I won't laugh. Who told her?
agnes		An angel, when she was having one of her headaches.
martha		Did your mother see angels often?
agnes		No.
martha		Do you?
agnes		No.
martha		Do you believe she really saw them?
agnes		 No, but I can never tell her that.
martha		Why not?  Mmm?
agnes		She'd get angry.
martha		Agnes, did you love your mother?
agnes		Yes.
martha		Did you ever want to be a mother yourself?
agnes		I could never be a mother.
martha		Why not?
agnes		Well I don't think I'm old enough and besides I don't want to have a baby.
martha		Why not?
agnes		Because I don't want one.
martha		If you did want one, how'd you go about getting one?
agnes		From someone who didn't want to have a baby.
martha		Like you?
martha		How would that person get one if they didn't want one?
agnes		 A mistake...
martha		Agnes, how did your mother get you?
agnes		A mistake... it was a mistake...
martha		Agnes, I don't believe you know nothing about sex...
agnes		I can't help it if I'm stupid.
martha		... that you don't remember getting pregnant...
agnes		Not my fault.
martha		... and that you don't believe you carried a child.
agnes		I was a mistake.
martha		What the child?
agnes		Everything... I don't have children.
martha		Agnes...
agnes		Don't touch me like that! You don't touch me like that, I know what you want from me, you want to take God away. You should be ashamed, they should lock you up people like you.
mother miriam		You hate us don't you?
martha		What?
mother miriam		Nuns... you hate nuns.
martha		I hate ignorance and stupidity.
mother miriam		The Catholic Church...
martha		I haven't said anything against the the Catholic Church.
mother miriam		Catholicism is not on trial here. I want you to deal with Agnes without any religious prejudice or you turn this case over to someone else...
martha		How dare you tell me to run my affairs!
mother miriam		It's my affair too.
martha		How dare you think I'm in a position to be pressured...
mother miriam		I'm only interested...
martha		...    or bullied or what ever you're doing. Who    the hell do you think you are? You go    around here expecting applause for the    way you treated this child.
mother miriam		She is not a child.
martha		And she has a right to know that there's a world out there filled with people who don't believe in God...
mother miriam		???     
martha		???  ... virginity, right Mother? Poverty, chastity and ignorance is what you live by.
mother miriam		I am not a virgin, Doctor. I was married for twenty three years, two daughters. I even have grandchildren... surprised? It might please you to know that I was a failure as a wife and mother. My children won't even see me any more, that's their revenge. I think they tell their friends that I've passed on. And don't tell me I'm making up for past mistakes Doctor Freud. 
martha		Then help her.
mother miriam		I am...
martha		No, you're shielding her. Let her face the world.
mother miriam		What good would it do. No matter what you decide it's either the... the prison or the nut house and the differences between them are pretty thin.
martha		There's another choice.
mother miriam		What?
martha		Aquittal.
mother miriam		How?
martha		Innocence. Legal innocence. I know the judge would be happy for any reason to throw this case out of court.
mother miriam		All right, what do you need.
martha		Answers.
martha		When would Agnes have conceived the child?
mother miriam		Oh, some time in January.
martha		Do you remember anything unusual happening at the time?
mother miriam		Earthquakes?
martha		Visitors to the convent.
mother miriam		Nothing.
martha		Do you have a... a diary or a day book?
mother miriam		Yes.
martha		Take at look at it.
mother miriam		There's nothing here.
mother miriam		 Oh, Dear God...
martha		What is it?
mother miriam		The sheets...
martha		What sheets?
mother miriam		Oh, Dear God, I should have guessed...
mother miriam		Sister Marguerite says you have been sleeping on a bare mattress Sister. Is that true?
agnes		Yes Mother.
mother miriam		Why?
agnes		In the medieval days the nuns and monks would sleep in their own coffins.
mother miriam		We're not in the Middle Ages, Sister.
agnes		It made them holy.
mother miriam		It made them uncomfortable. And if
agnes		No.
mother miriam		Then tell me. Where are your sheets?
agnes		I burnt them.
mother miriam		Why?
agnes		 They were stained.
mother miriam		How many times have I burned into your thick skull and the thick skull of your fellow novice, that menstruation is a perfectly natural process and nothing to be ashamed of.
agnes		Yes, Mother.
mother miriam		Say it!
mother miriam		Mean it!
mother miriam		A few years ago one of the Sisters came to me in tears, asking for comfort, comfort because she was too old to have any children. Not that she wanted to, but once a month she had been reminded of that possibility.
agnes		It's not that... it's not that...
mother miriam		What do you mean?
agnes		It's not my time of month.
mother miriam		Should you see a doctor?
agnes		I don't know. I don't know what happened Mother, I woke up... there was blood on the sheets, but I don't know what happened.  I don't know what I did wrong, I don't know and I should be punished.
mother miriam		For what?
agnes		I don't know... I don't know...
martha		No.
monsignor		Well you're probably right about that. It certainly can't help Sister Agnes to have this investigation continued for any length of time.
martha		Why do you call it an investigation? I never have.
monsignor		Your mother was a resident of Saint Catherines home before you moved her.
martha		What does this have to do with..?
monsignor		And you had a sister who died in the convent.
martha		Who told you this?
monsignor		Do you still go to church?
martha		What business is it of yours..?
monsignor		Oh, we just wonder if you can be very objective about this case.
martha		Look, Father, ah... just because I don't subscribe to the... to the beliefs you subscribe to...
monsignor		 But what you believe makes no difference to us whatsoever Doctor. But it does
martha		I don't understand. Are you expecting me to..?
monsignor		Well somone's got to suffer for this Doctor. You've got to be merciful and quick. Excuse me.
martha		Agnes, I'm here because I want to help you.
agnes		I'm not sick.
martha		But you're troubled... aren't you?
agnes		That's because you keep reminding me. If you go away then I'll forget.
martha		And you're unhappy.
agnes		Everyone's unhappy, you're unhappy aren't
martha		Agnes...
agnes		Answer me!    You never answer me.
martha		Sometimes, yes.
agnes		Only you think    you're lucky because you didn't have    a mother who said things to you and did    things to you that maybe weren't always    nice but that was because of me, because    I was bad, not her.
martha		What did you do?
agnes		I'm always bad.
martha		What did you do?
agnes		I breathed!
martha		Agnes. What did your mother do to you?  What did she make you you do?
agnes		No...
martha		You can tell me.
agnes		I can't.
martha		She's dead isn't she?
agnes		Yes.
martha		She can't hurt you any more.
agnes		She can.
martha		How?
agnes		She watches... she listens.
martha		Agnes, I don't believe that. Tell me. I'll protect you from her.
agnes		She...
martha		Yes?
agnes		... makes me...
martha		Yes?
agnes		... take off my clothes and then... she makes fun of me.
martha		She tells you you're ugly?
agnes		Yes.
martha		And that you're stupid?
agnes		Yes.
martha		That you're a mistake?
agnes		She says my whole body's a mistake.
martha		Why?
agnes		Because she says if I don't watch out I'll have a baby.
martha		How does she know that?
agnes		Her headaches.
martha		Oh, yes.
agnes		And then...
martha		What?
agnes		She touches me down there with a cigarette.  Please Mommy, don't touch me like that any more. I'll be good, I won't be a baby any more.
martha		Agnes, oh Agnes, Agnes I want you to do something. I want you to pretend that I'm your mother. Oh yes, only this time I want you to tell me what you're feeling, alright?
agnes		I'm afraid.
martha		Please!    I want to help you. Let me help you.
agnes		Alright.
martha		Agnes, you're ugly!... what do you say? Of course you do. Agnes, you're ugly!... what do you say?
agnes		No I'm not.
martha		Are you pretty?
agnes		Yes.
martha		Agnes, you're stupid.
agnes		No I'm not.
martha		Are you intelligent?
agnes		 Yes I am.
martha		You're a mistake.
agnes		 I'm not mistake, I'm here aren't I. How can I be a mistake if I'm really here. God doesn't make mistakes, you're a mistake...
martha		Oh Agnes, oh Agnes, it's alright, it's alright, it's alright, it's alright, I love you.
agnes		Do you really love me or are you just saying that?
martha		I really love you.
agnes		As much as Mother Miriam does?
martha		As much as God loves you.
martha		Agnes?  Who?     Mother Superior?
elderly nun		 ???
martha		What?
elderly nun		Look into the convent records.
martha		Sister...
martha		 Oh, Good afternoon Sister, I... I'm looking for some biographical data on Sister Agnes, and Mother said I might find it here.
martha		Thank you.
martha		You lied to me
martha		 Your niece!
mother miriam		I didn't tell you because I didn't think it was important.
martha		No, it just makes you doubly responsible doesn't it?
mother miriam		I never saw Agnes until she set foot in this convent. My sister ran away from home. We lost touch with her. And when my husband died and I came here, she wrote to me and asked me if I would take care of Agnes in case anything happened.
martha		And Agnes' father?
mother miriam		It could have been any one of a dozen men from what my sister told me.
martha		Like keeping her home from school?
mother miriam		Yes.
martha		Listening to angels?
mother miriam		She drank too much. That's what killed her.
martha		Do you know what she did to her?
mother miriam		I don't think I care to know.
martha		She molested her!
mother miriam		Oh, dear God.
martha		There is more here than meets the eye isn't there? Lots of dirty little secrets.
mother miriam		 Oh God, if only I'd known.
martha		Why didn't you? You knew she was keeping her home from school. You knew she was an alcoholic.
mother miriam		I knew that after the fact.
martha		Why didn't you do anything to stop her?
mother miriam		Because I didn't know... 
martha		Oh, God.
martha		Larry...
larry		Marty, what are you doing here?
martha		Larry there's got to be something missing.
larry		I gave you the pictures Marty, what else do you want?
larry		What? You think that the girl is innocent?
martha		I don't know.
larry		You got to be crazy.
martha		Larry...
larry		What's the matter with you, you've seen the reports. It's a cut and dried case.
martha		Maybe there's something that's not in the report that should be.
larry		You're too involved Marty.  Jesus look at you. Why don't you turn this case over to someone else?
martha		Thanks. 
larry		 If I find anything I'll call you.
martha		I've gotten the court's permission to hypnotise her.
mother miriam		And my permission?
martha		I'd like yours too.
mother miriam		We'll see about that.
martha		Don't deny it!
mother miriam		I haven't decided yet.
martha		The woman's health is at stake.
mother miriam		Her spiritual health.
martha		I don't give a damn about her spiritual health.
mother miriam		I know you don't.
martha		Sentence her and be done with it, that's what you're saying and I...
martha		An unhappy woman...
mother miriam		She's happy with us and she could go on being happy if she was left alone.
martha		Then why did you call the police in the first place Mother, huh?
mother miriam		Because I am a moral person.
martha		Bullshit!
mother miriam		Bullshit yourself!
martha		Catholic Church doesn't have a corner on morality...
mother miriam		Who said anything about the Catholic Church...
martha		You just said...
mother miriam		What the hell has the Catholic Church got to do with you?
martha		Nothing...
mother miriam		What have we done to hurt you? And don't deny it, I can smell an ex-Catholic a mile away. What did we do? Burn a few heretics, sell some indulgences? That was in the days when the Church was a ruling body. We let governments do those things today. So what did we do to you eh? You wanted to neck in the back seat of a car when you were fifteen and you couldn't because it was a sin?
martha		 It wasn't sex. It was a lot of things, but it wasn't sex. You know when I was in the first grade my best friend was run
mother miriam		Stupid woman... and that's all?
martha		That's all? That's enough!   She was a beautiful little girl.
mother miriam		And what has that to do with it?
martha		I wasn't. I wasn't. She was the pretty one. She died, why not me? I never said my morning prayers. And I was ugly, I was scrawny, I had buck teeth and freckles all over my face, do you know what the nun called me, Sister Mary Clitus, called me Polkadot Livingston.
mother miriam		So you left the Church because you had freckles?
martha		No, because I... yeah, yeah I left the Church cause I had freckles.
mother miriam		When I was a child I used to hear my guardian angel. She sang to me 'till I was six years old. That's when I stopped listening. But I remember the voice. A few years ago I looked at myself and saw nothing but a nun who was certain of nothing. Not even of Heaven. Not even of God. And then one evening I saw Agnes standing by
martha		My sister died in a convent. And it's her voice I hear.  Does my smoking bother you?
mother miriam		No, it reminds me.
martha		Would you like one? Huh?
mother miriam		I'd love one.
mother miriam		I'm out of prac... 
martha		All right?
mother miriam		Fine thanks...
martha		Do you suppose the saints would have smoked if tobacco had been popular back then?
mother miriam		Undoubtedly. Not the ascetics of course but, well Saint Thomas More...
martha		 Long, thin and filtered.
mother miriam		Saint Ignatius would smoke cigars and stub them out on the soles of his bare feet. 
martha		Hand rolled.
mother miriam		Even Christ would partake socially.
martha		Saint Peter?
mother miriam		Pipe!
martha		Right...
mother miriam		Mary Magdelen?
martha		 Oh, you've come a long way baby.
mother miriam		And Saint John would chew tobacco.
martha		Right.  What do you suppose today's saints are smoking?
mother miriam		There are no saints today. Good people yes, but extraordinarily good people... those I'm afraid we are sorely lacking.
martha		Do you think they ever existed?
mother miriam		Yes I do.
martha		Do you want to become one?
mother miriam		Become?     One is born a saint.
martha		Well you can try, can't you, to be good?
mother miriam		Yes, but goodness has very little to do with it. Not all the saints were good, in fact some of them were a little crazy. But... they were still attached to God. Agnes has that birth. 
martha		Do you think Agnes is still attached to God?
mother miriam		Listen to her singing.
martha		 I'd like to begin.
mother miriam		Begin what?
martha		The hypnotism. Do you still disapprove?
mother miriam		Would it stop you if I did?
martha		No.
mother miriam		May I be present?
martha		Of course.
mother miriam		Then let's begin.
martha		You're listening to a chorus of angels. The music surrounds you like a... warm and, comfortable pool of water. And while you're sleeping, you're going to be able to recall, all the things that we want you to remember. And when I count to three and clap my hands, you'll no longer be hypnotised. Can you hear me.
agnes		Yes.
martha		Who am I?
agnes		Doctor Livingston.
martha		And why am I here?
agnes		To help me.
martha		Good. Would you like to tell me why you're here?
agnes		Because I'm in trouble.
martha		What kind of trouble?  What kind of trouble Agnes?
agnes		I'm frightened.
martha		Of what?
agnes		Of telling you.
martha		But it's easy. It's just a breath with sound. Say it. What kind of trouble?
agnes		 I had a baby.
martha		How did you have a baby?
agnes		It came out of me.
martha		Did you know what was going to come
agnes		Yes.
martha		Did you want it to come out?
agnes		No.
martha		Why?
agnes		Because I was afraid.
martha		Why were you afraid?
agnes		Because I wasn't worthy.
martha		To be a mother?
agnes		Yes.
martha		Why?
agnes		May I open my eyes now?
martha		No not yet Agnes, very soon but not yet. How did the baby get into you?
agnes		It grew.
martha		What made it grow? Do you know?
agnes		Yes.
martha		Would you like to tell me?
agnes		No.
martha		Did anyone else know about the baby?
martha		Will she be angry?
agnes		She made me promise not to.
martha		Who?     Who made you promise?  Let's    go to your room. It's the night about    six weeks ago when you were very    sick.
agnes		I'm afraid.
martha		Oh don't be, I'm here. It's alright. I want you to tell me what you did before you went to bed.
agnes		I ate.
martha		Hm hmm. What did you have for dinner?
agnes		Fish...  ... brussel sprouts.
martha		You don't like brussel sprouts?
agnes		I hate them.
martha		And then what happened?
agnes		We went to chapel for vespers.
martha		Hm hmm.
agnes		I left early because I wasn't feeling very well.
martha		What is it?
agnes		Someone's following me.
martha		Who?
agnes		Sister Marguerite I think.
martha		Was it Sister Marguerite who knew about the baby?  Alright Agnes, I want you to see your room as you saw it on that night.
agnes		My bed.
martha		What else?
agnes		A crucifix.
martha		Above the bed? Any... anything else? What do you you see, something different? What is it?
agnes		 A wastepaper basket.
martha		Do you know who put it there?
agnes		No.
martha		What do you think it's there for?
agnes		For me to get sick in.
martha		Are you ill?
agnes		Yes.
martha		What do you feel?
agnes		I feel as if I've eaten glass.
martha		What do you do?
agnes		I have to throw up...
martha		Which one?
agnes		I don't know which one 
martha		Of what?
agnes		Of me. Oh... God! My God...  Water... it's all water...
martha		Why isn't anyone coming?
agnes		 Oh God... I don't wanna...
mother miriam		 Stop her!
martha		What is it?
martha		Who?
agnes		Go away, I don't want you here.
martha		Is someone in the room with you?
agnes		No... don't hit me please...
mother miriam		Stop this, she'll hurt herself  I'm not going to allow this.
martha		 NO... no... I said leave her alone.
martha		Alright Agnes... it's alright. One, two three...  It's alright... it's me, Doctor Livingston, it's alright, alright. Thankyou Agnes, thankyou. How do you feel?
agnes		Frightened.
martha		Do you remember what just happened?
agnes		 Yes.
martha		That's good. Do you feel well enough to stand?
martha		There you go. It's alright, it's alright, it's all over. It's alright Agnes, that's right, that's right.
man		Oh... very interesting I guess...  Excuse me...
martha		 That's how he got in... or she got out.
man		Oh excuse me, what did you say?
martha		Nothing. May I take some notes?
man		Oh yes, 
office girl		checks her lipstick in the reflective metal walls. The lift stops and the Sisters get off.
mother miriam		Is the Doctor in her office?
helen		Ah, who shall I say is calling?
mother miriam		 General MacArthur.
helen		Just a minute please, you can't go in there.
martha		 It's... it's alright Helen, just close the door.
mother miriam		I've just met with the bishop. We're taking you off the case.
martha		 You're what?
mother miriam		If we want to hire a psychiatrist for Agnes. we'll find our own, thank you. 
martha		One that will ask the questions you want asked.
mother miriam		 One that will approach this matter with some objectivity and respect.
martha		For the Church?
mother miriam		For Agnes.
martha		You think she's a saint?
mother miriam		She's been touched by God, yes.
martha		How? How? She hallucinates, stops eating and bleeds spontaneously. Is that supposed to convince me she shouldn't be touched. Give me a miracle.
mother miriam		The father!
martha		Who is he?
mother miriam		Why must he be anybody?
martha		 My God, you're as crazy as...
mother miriam		Stop laughing, I don't say it's the truth, I'm saying...
martha		How  ?
mother miriam		Don't be ridiculous.
martha		Well give me a reasonable explanation
mother miriam		A miracle is an event without an explanation. If she's capable of putting a hole in her hand without benefit of a nail, why couldn't she split a cell in her womb?
martha		This is insane.
mother miriam		There as no man in the convent on that night and no way for any man to get in or out.
martha		You're saying God did it?
martha		But how did it happen?
mother miriam		You'll never find the answer for everything God did.
martha		I thought you didn't believe in miracles today Mother?
mother miriam		But I want the opportunity to believe. I want the choice to believe.
martha		But what    you are choosing to believe is a lie    because you won't face the fact that she    was raped... or seduced... or that    she did the seducing.
mother miriam		She is an innocent.
martha		But she is not an enigma Mother. Everything that Agnes has done is explainable from modern psychiatry. One, two, three, right down the line.
mother miriam		That's what you believe she is?     The sum of her psychological parts?
martha		That's what I have to believe...
mother miriam		Then why are you so obsessed with her? You're losing sleep over her?  You're thinking about her all the time. You're bent on saving her. Why?
martha		There's a tunnel out of the crypt into the barn. Did you know about that? There's an answer Mother. That's how she got out.
mother miriam		That's crazy. How could she find out about it?
martha		Somebody told her.
mother miriam		Who? That tun... that tunnel hasn't been used in fifty years.
martha		Oh, would you stop lying Mother!
mother miriam		Why would I lie?
martha		Because it's murder we're talking about. Aren't you concerned about what she told us about the other person in her room.
mother miriam		I'm concerned about her health.
martha		Who was that person Mother?    Was it you?
mother miriam		If you believe this is murder, it is the Crown attorney you have to talk to, not me. And definitely not Agnes.
martha		All I want is one more week.
leveau		Why?  You've done nothing to show any progress.
martha		Yes, that's because I'm getting to her.
leveau		You're getting to all of us Martha, let's face it.
martha		I'll have a decision by next week.
leveau		It's gone on long enough. You're out.
martha		Oh Joe... Joe she didn't kill the baby.
leveau		 You have proof?
martha		I'll have it.
leveau		When?
martha		Next week.
leveau		 No, no, no...
leveau		No!
martha		Tomorrow... tomorrow, I'll get it by tomorrow. I will.
leveau		Yes, demain 
mother miriam		This is permission to take her apart.
martha		Where is she?
mother miriam		Hasn't she had enough?
martha		I have a few more questions to ask her.
mother miriam		My God, but you're determined.
martha		Who knew she was pregnant?
mother miriam		Why do you insist upon pressing...
martha		Was it you?
mother miriam		Is it because she's a nun?
martha		Did you know she was pregnant?
mother miriam		Yes.
martha		And you didn't send her to a doctor.
mother miriam		I didn't guess until it was too late.
martha		For what?     An abortion?
mother miriam		Oh, don't be ridiculous.
martha		Too late for what?
mother miriam		I don't know... too late to stop it.
martha		The baby?
mother miriam		The scandal...
martha		You went to the room to help with the birth.
mother miriam		She didn't want any help.
mother miriam		That's a lie.
martha		You hid the wastepaper basket in her room.
mother miriam		I didn't hide it. I put it there for the blood and the dirty sheets.
martha		And the baby.
mother miriam		No!
martha		You tied the cord around its neck.
mother miriam		I wanted her to have it when no-one else was around, they would have taken the baby to a hospital and left it with them, but it was such a difficult birth, there was so much blood and I panicked.
martha		Before or after you killed the child?
mother miriam		I left it with her and I went for help.
martha		I doubt that's what she'd say.
mother miriam		Then she's a liar.
martha		Agnes, can you hear me?
agnes		Yes.
martha		I want you to remember if you can a night last January. The night Sister Paul died. Do you remember.
agnes		She said Michael.
martha		What did she mean?
agnes		The statue. She had shown it to me the day before.
martha		And the passage to the barn?
agnes		Yes.
martha		Why?
agnes		So I could go to him.
martha		Who?
agnes		Him.
martha		How did she know about him?
agnes		She'd seen him too.
martha		Where?
agnes		From the belltower the day she before she died.
martha		So she sent you?
agnes		Yes.
martha		Are you frightened?
agnes		Yes.
agnes		Hallo...
agnes		... where are you?
agnes		Is it you?
agnes		Halos...
agnes		His blood... my God...
martha		Oh Agnes...
agnes		It's bleeding... I'm bleeding... my God it won't stop, I can't get it to stop.  Let go of me, I wish you were dead.
martha		 Agnes... Agnes...
agnes		Stay away from me...
martha		Agnes it had nothing to do with the hand of God. He did a terrible thing to you, do you understand?
agnes		No...
martha		He    frightened you and he hurt you. It's not    your fault. It's his fault. Tell us who    he is so we can find him. Stop him    from doing this to other women.
agnes		Not your fault...
martha		Agnes who did you see?
agnes		I hate him...
martha		Of course you do. Who was it?
agnes		I hate him for what he did to me.
martha		Yes.
agnes		For what he made me go through.
martha		Who?
agnes		I hate him.
martha		Agnes, who did this to you?
agnes		God!  It was God.  And now I'll burn in hell because I hate him.
martha		Agnes you won't burn in hell. It's alright to hate him.
mother miriam		That's enough.
martha		Agnes, what happened to the baby?
mother miriam		 She can't remember.
martha		What happened to the baby?
agnes		It was dead.
martha		It was alive wasn't it?
agnes		I don't remember.
mother miriam		 Oh, don't do this!
martha		Wasn't it!
agnes		YES!
martha		Mother Miriam was with you wasn't she?
martha		She took the baby in her arms?
agnes		Yes.
martha		You saw it all didn't you?
agnes		Yes.
martha		And then... what did she do?  Agnes what did she do?
agnes		She... left me alone with that little thing, and I looked at it, and I thought this is a mistake. But it's my mistake, not Mommy's. God's mistake.
martha		What did you do?
agnes		I put her to sleep.
martha		H... how?
agnes		I tied the cord around her neck... wrapped her in the bloody sheets... and stuffed her in the trash can.
leveau		In view of the situation as it now stands, and the testimony given here this morning, it seems quite clear that the defendant was in no manner responsible for her actions. It is therefore the judgement of this court that she be returned to the convent of Marie Madeleine where she will be cared for under proper medical supervision by a visiting physician.
agnes		 Charlie Sweet... Charlie Sweet... Charlie's a...
leveau		Please, remove her from the court.
leveau		Would someone please remove the defendant from the courtroom. 
****Dialogues from script :air_force_one.txt****

****Dialogues from script :airplane.txt****

shooting script		June 11, 1979 Revised 6/15/79
elaine		No, but thank you very much.
shirley		Jack, isn't that Fred Bliffert over there in the blue turtleneck? Maybe he's on our flight to Chicago.
jack		Yeah, I think he is.  Hey, Fred!
elderly woman		Go, O.J., go!!
security lady		Please put your metal objects on this tray.
businessman		Taxi!
striker		Back in a minute.
striker		Elaine!
elaine		 Ted!
striker		I came home early and found your note. I guess you meant for me to read it later. Elaine, I've got to talk to you.
elaine		I just don't want to go over it any more.
striker		I know things haven't been right for a long time, but it'll be different. If you'll just be patient, I can work things out.
elaine		I have been patient and I've tried to help, but you wouldn't even let me do that.
striker		Don't you feel anything for me at all any more?
elaine		It takes so many things to make love last. Most of all it takes respect. And I can't live with a man I don't respect!
striker		 What a pisser.
oveur		This is Captain Oveur.
oveur		 I've got it!
turnansky		There's a passenger on your Chicago flight two-oh-niner, a little girl named Lisa Davis -- en route to Minneapolis. She's scheduled for a heart transplant and we'd like you to tell her mother that we found a donor an hour ago.
turnansky		We have the heart here ready for surgery and we must have the recipient on the operating table within six hours.
turnansky		I want you to make sure she is kept in a reclined position and that a continuous watch is kept on her I.V.
oveur		All right. Give me Hamm on five, hold the Mayo.
striker		Look, you'll be back in town tomorrow night. We'll have dinner -- talk it over.
elaine		I won't be back. I've requested the Atlanta run.
striker		Elaine, not yet. I promise you I really can change.
elaine		Then why don't you take the job that Louie Netz offered you at Boeing?
striker		You know I haven't been able to get near an airplane since the war. And even if I could, they wouldn't hire me because of my war record.
elaine		Your war record? You're the only one keeping that alive. For everyone else it's ancient history.
striker		You expect me to believe that?
elaine		It's the truth. What's hurt you the most is your record since the war. Different cities, different jobs, and not one of them shows you can accept any real responsibility.
striker		But if you'll just give me...
elaine		It's too late, Ted. When I get back to Chicago, I'm going to start my life all over again. I'm sorry.
basta		Any word on that storm lifting over Salt Lake, Clarence?
oveur		Unlikely, Victor. I just reviewed the Area Report for 1609 hours through 2400 hours. That's an occluded front stalled over the Dakotas -- backed up all the way to Utah.
basta		If it decides to push over into the Great Lakes it could get plenty soupy. How about the southern route, around Tulsa?
oveur		I double checked the terminal forecast and winds aloft. IFR ceilings all the way.
basta		Where do they top out?
oveur		Well, there's some light scattered cover at twenty thousand with icing around eighteen.
basta		Looks like the original flight plan over Denver is still the best bet.
oveur		Denver it is.
murdock		Sorry, Clarence. Latest weather report shows everything socked in from Salt Lake to Lincoln.
oveur		 Hi, Roger. Good to have you aboard. Victor, this is Roger Murdock.
basta		How do you do, Roger?
jack		What did you think of 'Great Expectations?'
shirley		Well, it wasn't all that I had hoped.
girl		Oh, Bill, I'm going to miss you so much.
soldier		You promise you'll write.
girl		Every day.
airport steward		Better get on board, son.
striker		Can you tell me if Elaine Dickinson is on this flight?
striker		I'd like one ticket to Chicago. No baggage!
striker		Smoking, please.
randy		Fourteen-B. It's halfway down on your right.
striker		Thank you.
striker		Yes.
striker		No. I've been nervous lots of times. I used to be a pilot myself...during the war.
elaine		We'll be taking off real soon so we better fasten you in tight.
lisa		Thank you. Oh Mother, this is so exciting.
elaine		That's good advice. You relax and I'll be back after we take off.
oveur		Two-zero-niner to ground control. We are loaded and ready to taxi.
soldier		Good-bye, darling.
girl		Oh, good-bye, Bill! Have your picture taken as soon as you get there and send me one!
soldier		I will.
girl		Don't you go getting fat or anything.
soldier		Don't worry, I won't. Okay, here -- hurry!
girl		Oh, but it's your watch. You shouldn't. You'll need it.
soldier		Good-bye, darling.
girl		Oh, Bill, I'll keep it. I'll keep it with me all the time.
soldier		So long, darling. Good-bye. Take care of yourself.
girl		Bill! Bill! Good-bye, Bill.
soldier		Good-bye, darling.
girl		Good-bye, darling. I love you. I love you, darling.
soldier		Good-bye, darling.
oveur		Roger.
murdock		 Huh?
oveur		Roger.
murdock		 Huh?
basta		 Request vector...over.
oveur		 What?
murdock		We have clearance, Clarence.
oveur		Roger, Roger. What's our vector, Victor?
randy		Do you feel all right, sir?
striker		Oh -- I haven't flown for a long time.
elaine		Would you like something to read?
elaine		How about this leaflet: 'Famous Jewish Sports Legends?'
elaine		Ted, what are you doing here?
striker		Elaine, I've got to talk to you.
elaine		You...you shouldn't have come. I don't have time now.
elaine		Excuse me.
striker		Yes, I know. Things used to be different. I remember when we first met. It was during the war.
striker		We laughed, we talked, we danced, I never wanted it to end and I guess I still don't. But enough about me. I hope this hasn't been boring for you.
striker		It's just that when I start to talk about Elaine, I get so carried away -- I lose all track of time -- not unlike Oliver in 'Jesus: the Man.'
milton		I happened to be passing, and I thought you might like some corfee.
bernice		That's very nice of you. Thank you.
bernice		Ah, won't you sit down?
milton		Thank you. Cream?
bernice		No, thank you. I take it black. Like my men.
milton		Were you vacationing in Los Angeles?
bernice		Well, it really wasn't a vacation. You see, I'm a teacher in the New York City school system, and I was attending a seminar on visual aids to education. Are you from L.A.?
milton		No. I'm from Washington, D.C. I'm a lobbyist for the Small Businessmen's Assocation.
elaine		Would you like to order dinner now?
joey		When can I see the cockpit, Dad?
joey		Aw, gee whiz.
elaine		I tell you what, Joey. I'll talk to the Captain and see what I can arrange.
joey		Gee! That'd be swell!
elaine		Would you gentlemen care to order your dinners?
randy		May I take your dinner order?
elaine		Oh, Ted, I never knew I could be so happy. These past few months have been wonderful. Tomorrow why don't we drive up the coast to that little seafood place and...
elaine		What's the matter?
striker		My orders came through. My squadron ships out tomorrow. I'll be leading a very important mission.
elaine		Oh, Ted, please be careful. I worry about you so much.
striker		I love you, Elaine.
elaine		I love you.
oveur		Roger, Denver.
elaine		We have a visitor.
oveur		Hello.
murdock		Hi.
elaine		This is Captain Oveur. Mister Murdock and Mister Johnson. This is Joey Hammen.
murdock		Come on up here. You can see better.
oveur		Joey, here's something we give our special visitors. Would you like to have it?
joey		Thank you. Thanks a lot!
oveur		Have you ever been in a cockpit before?
joey		No, sir. I've never been up in a plane before.
oveur		Have you ever seen a grown man naked?
murdock		Do you want me to check the weather, Clarence?
oveur		 No, why don't you take care ot it?
elaine		We'd better get back now.
oveur		Joey can stay up here for a while if he'd like to.
joey		Could I?
elaine		Okay, if you don't get in the way.
murdock		Flight two-zero-niner to Denver radio. Climbing to cruise at forty-two thousand. Will report again over Lincoln. Over and out.
joey		Wait a minute. I know you. You're Kareem Abdul Jabbar. You play basketball for the Los Angeles Lakers!
murdock		I'm sorry, son, but you must have me confused with someone else. My name is Roger Murdock. I'm the co-pilot.
murdock		Ah, Victor, why don't you get the coordinates on the altitude vector and find out the ratio of direct velocity over engine speed?
joey		You are Kareem. I've seen you play. My Dad's got season tickets!
murdock		I think you should go back to your seat now, Joey. Right, Clarence?
oveur		No, he's not bothering anyone. Let him stay up here.
murdock		All right. But just remember, my name is Roger Murdock.
murdock		I'm an airline pilot.  Ah, Clarence, according to my calculations, with this tailwind we ought to be able to make up an additional fifteen minutes over the Rockies.
joey		I think you're the greatest. But my Dad says you don't work hard enough on defense.
murdock		 Denver Control, this is Flight two-zero- niner intersecting Victor Airway seven- niner-niner.
joey		...and that lots of times you don't even run down court.
murdock		We are turning left to a heading of zero- niner-niner.
joey		...and that you don't really try, except during the playoffs.
murdock		The hell I don't! I'm out there busting my buns every night.
murdock		Listen, kid, I've been hearing that crap ever since I was at UCLA. Tell your old man to drag Unseld and Lanier up and down the court for forty-eight minutes.  Ah...Denver Control, this is Flight two- zero-niner continuing on a heading two- niner-niner...niner, ah...niner...niner.
striker		Elaine, just hear me out. I know things haven't been right for a long time. But it will be different...like it was in the beginning. Remember?
elaine		I remember everything. All I have are memories.
elaine		Mostly I remember...the nights when we were together. I remember how you used to hold me...and how I used to sit on your face and wriggle...and then afterwards how we'd watch until the sun came up. When it did, it was almost like...like each new day was created...only for us.
striker		That's the way I've always wanted it to be, Elaine.
elaine		But it won't be. Not as long as you insist on living in the past!
elaine		You got a telegram from headquarters today.
striker		Headquarters!? What is it?
elaine		It's a big building where the generals meet. But that's not important right now. They've cleared you of any blame for what happened on that raid. Isn't that good news?
striker		Is it? Because of my mistake six men didn't return from that raid.
elaine		Seven. Lieutenant Zipp died this morning. Ted, Doctor Sandler says you'll be out in a week. Isn't that wonderful?
striker		I wish I could say the same for George Zipp.
elaine		Be patient, Ted. No one expects you to get over this immediately.
striker		All right. Take five.
elaine		I found a wonderful apartment for us. It's got a brick fireplace and a cute little bedroom with mirrors on the ceiling. And...
striker		That's Captain Geline. He thinks he's a pilot, still fighting the war.
elaine		What's his problem?
striker		That's Lieutennt Hurwitz. Severe shell shock. He thinks he's Ethel Merman.
randy		Excuse me, sir. Would you like some coffee before we serve dinner?
striker		No. No thank you.
randy		Would either of you like another cup of coffee?
randy		Excuse me, Sister?
sister angelina		Yes?
randy		There's a little girl on board who's ill and...
sister angelina		Oh yes, I saw. Poor child.
randy		Could I borrow your guitar? I thought I might be able to cheer her up.
sister angelina		Of course.
randy		Is it all right if I talk to your daughter?
randy		 Hi!
lisa		Hi!
randy		I'm Randy.
lisa		I'm Lisa. Oh, you have a guitar!
randy		I thought maybe you'd like to hear a song.
lisa		Oh, I'd love to.
randy		Okay, this is one of my favorites.
randy		 'I've traveled the banks of the River Jordan, to find where it flows to the sea.'
randy		'I looked in the eyes of the cold and the hungry and saw that I was looking at me.'
randy		 'And I wanted to know if life had a purpose, and what it all means in the end. In the silence I listened to the voices inside me, and they told me again and again.'
randy		'There is only one river. There is only one sea.'
randy		'And it flows through you, and it flows through me. There is only one people, we are one and the same.'
randy		 'We are all one spirit, one name. We are the Father, we are the son.'
randy		'In the Dawn of Creation. We are one.'
oveur		Hey, we've been waiting for you. A little bit late tonight.
elaine		Who wants to be first?
murdock		Go ahead, Clarence, I got it.
elaine		How's the weather?
murdock		Not so good. We've got some heavy stuff ahead of us. It might get rough again unless we can climb on top. But our airspeed is holding steady at six hundred ten knots.
elaine		That's great. By the way, Joey Hammen asked me if you would autograph this basketball.
striker		After the war, I just wanted to get as far away from things as possible. So Elaine and I joined the Peace Corps. We were assigned to an isolated tribe, the Molombos.
elaine		Also, Supperware products are ideal for storing leftovers to help stretch your food dollar. This two quart "Seals-M-Rite" container with a special "Close-M-Tite" lid keeps hotdog buns fresh for days and prevents sugared cereals from sticking.
elaine		Meat and dairy products are protected against unwanted refrigerator odors when sealed in this non-slip pastel colored "Freez-o-leer".
striker		I think they're getting the hang of it! When we re-enlist I'll teach them baseball!
elaine		Ted, I don't want to stay here. It's time for us to go back home -- to the plans we made before the war.
striker		A lot of people made plans before the war. Like George Zipp.
striker		We did come back to the States. I tried a number of jobs...Well, I could go on for hours, but I'd probably start to bore you.
striker		You know, I really couldn't blame Elaine. She wanted a career. I was offered a job at Boeing but I couldn't bring myself to take it...
shirley		Oh, I can't stand it.
jack		What is it?
elaine		Yes?
shirley		My, stomach. I haven't felt this awful since we saw that Lina Wertmuller film.
elaine		I'll see if I can find some Dramamine.
shirley		OOOOOO.
elaine		Captain, one of the women passengers is very sick.
oveur		Airsick?
elaine		I think so, but I've never seen it so acute.
oveur		Find out if there's a doctor on board, as quietly as you can.
oveur		Joey, have you ever been in a Turkish prison?
elaine		I'm sorry I had to wake you. I'm just looking for a doctor. There's nothing to worry about.
elaine		Sir. Excuse me, sir. I'm sorry to have to wake you. Are you a doctor?
elaine		We have some passengers who are very sick. Could you come and take a look at them?
elaine		A hospital? What is it?
elaine		Certainly.
oveur		 Victor, we're running into a heavy storm, can you...
oveur		Victor! Roger, take over!
oveur		I can't tell.
oveur		No. I mean I'm just not sure.
oveur		Well...not for another two hours.
oveur		No, I mean we can't land for another two hours. Fog has closed down everything this side of the mountains. We've got to go through to Chicago!
oveur		 Get him out of there!
oveur		What is it, Doctor? What's happening?
elaine		Well, we had a choice. Steak or fish.
elaine		He had fish.
randy		We have two more sick people, and the rest of the passengers are worried.
oveur		I'll take care of the passengers. Elaine, find out what the two sick people had for dinner.  This is Captain Oveur speaking.
oveur		Meanwhile, relax and enjoy the rest of your flight. Okay? Okay!
oveur		That should do it.
oveur		 Chicago, this is flight two-zero-niner. We're in trouble.
dispatcher		We read you. Stand by, two-zero-niner.
randy		Yes?
randy		Well, the doctor will be with you in just a moment. One thing: do you know what he had for dinner?
randy		Oh, it's nothing to be alarmed about. We'll get back to you very quickly.
elaine		Doctor Rumack, Mister Hammen ate fish. And Randy says there are five more cases, and they ate fish, too.
elaine		He had fish, too.
elaine		Just how serious is it, doctor?
oveur		 Turn...on...automatic pilot.
elaine		Uh, automatic pilot...automatic pilot?
elaine		There it is!
elaine		This is Elaine Dickinson. I'm the stewardess. Captain Oveur is passed out on the floor, and we've lost the co-pilot and navigator, too. We're in terrible trouble. Over.
elaine		Hi, Steve!
elaine		Yes. Yes, it is. Over.
elaine		I'm standing over Oveur. Over.
hinshaw		No thanks.
hinshaw		How about Sal Mineo?
elaine		Three hundred twenty miles per hour.
elaine		Thirty-five thousand feet.
elaine		No, wait. Now it says thirty-four thousand feet. It's dropping! It's dropping fast! Why is it doing that?
elaine		Oh, my God! The automatic pilot! It's deflating!
elaine		Okay, but please hurry! We're dropping fast!
elaine		Yes. Yes, I can see it.
elaine		No.
elaine		Well...
elaine		No. No one that I know of.
carey		Hello, I'm Paul Carey from the airline. I'm here to pick up Captain Kramer.
carey		 Well, to tell the truth, they really didn't fill me in on many of the details. Just told me to pick up Captain Kramer.
carey		Yeah, something like that, but as I say, they didn't have time to tell me very much.
carey		Well...the airline business...does have... its moments...
carey		...but after...awhile...you begin to...  ...get used to it.
carey		I'm...in a...argh...navigator training program.
kramer		It's unbelievable! How many times have I warned those people about food inspection?
kramer		The airport management, the F.A.A., and the airlines, they're all cheats and liars! All right, let's get out of here.
randy		Sorry to bother you. We were just looking for someone with flying experience.
striker		You see, the day we left the village it was raining, so we had to take a special jeep to the main road...
striker		In fact, we were lucky to even get a jeep since just the day before the only one we had broke down -- it had a bad axle...
randy		Excuse me, sir. There's been a little problem in the cockpit and I was wondering...
striker		The cockpit? What is it?
randy		It's the little room at the front of the plane where the pilots sit. But that's not important right now. The first officer is ill and the Captain would like someone with flying experience to help him with the radio. Do you know anything about planes?
striker		Well, I flew in the war, but that was a long time ago. I wouldn't know anything about it.
randy		Would you go up, please?
jack		Would ya like a little whiskey, ma'am?
striker		 The stewardess said...
striker		Both pilots!
striker		Surely you can't be serious.
striker		Well, I flew single-engine fighters in the Air Force, but this plane has four engines. It's an entirely different kind of flying...all together!!!
striker		Besides, I haven't touched any kind of plane in six years.
hinshaw		Would anyone care for a roll and coffee?
kramer		 No, we can't do that; the risk of a flameout is too great. Keep him 24,000. No, feet!
kramer		One of the passengers is going to land that plane.
carey		Is that possible?
kramer		Possible, but it's a hundred to one shot. Thousand to one. I know this guy.
carey		You do? Who is it?
kramer		His name is Ted Striker. I flew with him during the war. And that won't make my job any easier tonight.
kramer		Ted Striker was a crack flight leader up to a point. But he was one of those men who, well, let's just say he felt too much inside. Maybe you know the kind.
kramer		It takes a certain type to perform under pressure. Striker didn't have it.
kramer		Ate his heart out over every name on the casualty lists. The upshot of it is that he went all to pieces on one particular mission. Let's just hope it doesn't happen again tonight.
striker		Let's see, altitude twenty-four thousand feet, level flight, air speed four hundred sixty knots, course zero niner zero, trim, mixture, landing gear, balance.
elaine		Ted! What are you doing? You can't fly this plane!
striker		That's what I've been trying to tell these people.
striker		Let's see. Those are the flaps, that's the thrust, this must turn on the landing lights.
striker		 Mayday!
hinshaw		It's the Russian New Year! We'll have a parade! They'll serve hot hors d'oeuvres!
striker		Yeah, I was just trying out the landing lights.
randy		Calm down. Get hold of yourself!
jack		Stewardess, let me handle this.
jack		Get hold of yourself! Get hold of yourself!
sister angelina		 Doctor, you're wanted on the phone.
sister angelina		Everything will be all right. Please get hold of yourself.
kramer		All right, Steve, let's face a few facts.
kramer		As you know, I flew with this man, Striker, during the war. He'll have enough on his mind without remembering those days when -- well, when things weren't so good.
kramer		Let me tell you something, Steve. Striker was a top-notch squadron leader -- a long time ago...
kramer		...but my feeling is that when the going gets rough upstairs tonight, Ted Striker's gonna fold up.
kramer		Very well then. Put Striker on the speaker.
kramer		Striker, Striker, this is Captain Rex Kramer speaking.
striker		 Yes, Captain Kramer. Read you loud and clear.
kramer		All right. It's obvious you remember me.
kramer		So what do you say you and I just forget about everything except what we have to do now?
kramer		You and I are going to bring this plane in together.
kramer		Before we start, I'd like to say something. I know that right now things must look pretty rough up there.
kramer		But if you do what I tell you, when I tell you to do it, there's no reason you can't bring that plane in.
striker		Let's not kid each other, Kramer. You know I've never flown a bucket like this. I'm going to need all the luck there is.
kramer		Stand by, Striker.  All right, Striker, have you ever flown a multi-engine plane before?
kramer		Shit!
kramer		 All right, Striker, now you listen to me and you listen close. Flying is no different than riding a bicycle...it just happens to be a lot harder to put baseball cards in the spokes. Now, if you just follow my instructions...
kramer		First, I want you to familiarize yourself with the controls. Later we'll run through the landing procedure.
kramer		All right. Now I'd like you to disengage the automatic pilot. But watch any violent movement of the controls, like you used to make in Spitfires and Phantoms.
striker		 Okay, I'm going to unlock the automatic pilot.
striker		Yes! The stewardess is here with me!
striker		The radio's all yours now. And keep an eye on that number three engine. It's running a little hot.
elaine		 Rain.
striker		And a little ice.
elaine		And a little ice!
striker		Sluggish. Like a wet sponge.
elaine		 Sluggish. Like a wet sponge.
striker		 It's a damn good thing he doesn't know how much I hate his guts.
elaine		 It's a damn good thing you don't know how much he hates your guts.
black dude		Oooooooh.
randy		Can I get something for you?
black dude		Cain fo' gwine sho fi cun for.
randy		I'm sorry. I don't understand.
randy		Tell him to relax and I'll be back as quickly as I can with some medicine.
black dude		 Shi man I ain neba mo fo gwine ain.
sister angelina		'...I sit by the telephone for hours. I love when men send me flowers. I enjoy being a girl.'
jack		How ya doing, honey?
shirley		Oh Jack, I'm so warm. I'm burning up.
jack		Here.
milton		After my wife died, I felt like a fifth wheel. You know, so many years being with one person -- a very wonderful person -- makes you always think of yourself as part of a pair...When Ethel passed away, I was lost. I couldn't function socially and I couldn't function in business.
bernice		Well, after a thing like that you wouldn't be expected to.
milton		But I think it's time we stopped talking about me. A woman like you -- why haven't you ever married?
bernice		Well, I'm afraid that's a question that's all too easy to answer.
milton		I know the answer -- Career. A smart woman like you became so involved in your work, you didn't have time for marriage.
bernice		I wish I could fool myself into believing that that's the reason. The truth of the matter is, nobody ever asked me.
milton		You know, here we are having coffee together, and discussing education and business and economy...and we don't even know each other's names...full names I mean.
bernice		Mine's Eleanor. Eleanor Schiff.
milton		That's a lovely name. Mine's Milton...Milt Ettenhenim. But my friends call me 'Bubbles.'
randy		Would you care for a soft drink?
hinshaw		This? Why, I could make a hat or a broach...
horse		 Did you finish? Was I good?
randy		Would you care for another drink?
elaine		Doctor Rumack says the sick people are getting worse and we're running out of time.
jack		 What's going on? We have a right to know the truth!
striker		 Chicago, the passengers are beginning to panic. When do we start down?
kramer		 Not just yet, we'll have you in radar range any second now.
kramer		 I don't understand it. He should have been in range ten minutes ago.
gunderson		 About two more minutes, Chief.
kramer		That's impossible. They're on instruments!
kramer		This is gonna be a real sweat.  Gunderson, let me know when you get anything.
hinshaw		Would you like half of my provolone and roast beef?
hinshaw		I think Florence Henderson knows about it!
hinshaw		What are the chances of returning something to Montgomery Ward the week after Christmas?
newscaster		Striken Airliner Approaches Chicago!
jack kilpatrick		Shana, they bought their tickets, they knew what they were getting into. I say, let 'em crash!
striker		Yes, everything they've got. How are the passengers doing?
striker		Surely there must be something you can do.
jack		No, I'm not dead.
sister angelina		'What you want, Baby I got, What you need, You know I got it. All I'm askin' for Is a little respect When you come home.'
randy		Doctor Rumack, I'm scared. I've never been so scared. And besides, I'm twenty-six and I'm not married.
dispatcher		Oh boy, oh boy, oh boy.
kramer		 No, the risk of fire is too great. If she starts burning, you write off all those people who can't get out of there on their own power.
kramer		 No. A belly landing isn't all that simple. It takes a good pilot to keep from smearin' himself all over the runway.
kramer		 His only shot's with the wheels down. I've seen foam tear a man's guts out.
kramer		 That's a risk we'll just have to take.
striker		Rats! I've lost number three.
elaine		What happened, Ted? What went wrong?
striker		Oil pressure. I forgot to check the oil pressure. When Kramer hears about this, the shit's gonna hit the fan.
kramer		I told him to watch that oil temperature. What the hell's he doing up there?
kramer		Striker, that plane can't land itself! It takes a pilot who can handle pressure.
hinshaw		It happened to Barbara Stanwyck!
striker		He's right. I can't take the pressure. I was crazy to think I could land this plane.
elaine		But Ted, you're the only...
striker		I don't care. I just don't have what it takes. They'd be better off with someone who'd never flown before.
hinshaw		And Liz Taylor is getting larger!
kramer		All right, but let's wait until they reach the control area.
striker		I know what you're going to say, so save your breath.
striker		George Zipp said that?
striker		 Excuse me, Doc, I've got a plane to land.
striker		I'll take it, Elaine.
striker		Listen to me, Kramer. Doctor Rumack says the sick people are in critical condition and every minute counts. We've got to land now!
striker		No dice, Chicago. I'm giving the orders, and we're coming in...I guess the foot's on the other hand now, isn't it, Kramer?
kramer		I know. I know. But it's his ship now, his command; he's in charge, he's the boss, the head man, the top dog, the big cheese, the head honcho...
kramer		 'Passengers Certain to Die?!?!?!?!?!'
hinshaw		 There's a sale at Penny's!
kramer		 You, Neubauer. You, Macias.
hinshaw		Me John. Big tree.
hinshaw		Wagon train comes three, maybe four day away.
kramer		 Stand by, Striker. I'm going to the tower. And good luck.
hinshaw		 The tower! Oh! Rapunzel! Rapunzel!
randy		In a moment we'll ask you to assume crash positions. Your life jackets are located under your seat.
striped controller		We're all ready, sir.
striped controller		Captain McCroskey, this is Captain Roberts. Captain Kramer, this is Captain Colosimo. Captain Hinshaw, Captain Gatz. Captain Kramer, Captain Gatz. Captain Hinshaw, Captain Roberts.
kramer		All right. Colosimo, you'll work the relay. Roberts, double check all air traffic within five miles.
kramer		And get that finger out of your ear. You don't know where that finger's been! Gunderson?
gunderson		Yes, Captain?
kramer		Did you decide on a runway yet?
gunderson		Runway niner. It's the longest, and directly into the wind.
hinshaw		And the foliage looks so pretty this time of year.
kramer		 Striker, you're going to have to work fast. After this message, do not acknowledge any transmission unless you want to ask a question. Do you understand? Striker, Striker, do you read me?
hinshaw		Just like Gerald Ford!
hinshaw		 Where did you get that dress? It's an eye- sore!
gunderson		 Eight miles. Turn right to heading zero eight niner.
kramer		 You are now eight miles from the airport. Turn right to a heading of zero eight niner, throttle back slightly and begin to lose altitude to fifteen hundred feet.
kramer		 Steve, I want every light you can get poured on that field.
kramer		 Tower to all emergency vehicles. Runway is niner.
kramer		 Civilian equipment, number three.
hinshaw		 It's a twister! It's a twister! Toto!... Auntie Em!
randy		It won't be long now. Try not to worry.
gunderson		He's all over the place! Nine hundred feet up to thirteen hundred feet! What an asshole!
kramer		Watch your altitude, Striker. It's too erratic. You can't come straight in. You've got enough fuel left for two hours flying. You've got to stay up there 'til we get a break in the weather.
striker		I'll take it, Elaine.  Listen, Kramer, I'm coming in. Do you hear me? I'm coming in right now! We have people up here who will die in less than an hour, never mind two. I may bend your precious airplane, but I'll get it down! Now get on with the landing check. I'm putting the gear down now.
randy		Mr. Striker, the passengers are ready.
striker		Thank you, Randy. You better leave sweetheart. You might get hurt in here.
elaine		Ted...
striker		Yes?
elaine		I wanted you to know -- now -- I'm very proud.
striker		Tell them the gear is down and we're ready to land.
elaine		 The gear is down.
businessman		Well, I'll give him another twenty minutes, but that's it.
milton		I'm sure we'll both make it...but just in case one of us...well, is there a message you'd like me to give someone?
bernice		No. I'm all alone.
milton		Just in case I don't have a chance to say goodbye, I want you to know that I haven't spent so many pleasant hours for many years.
bernice		That's a very nice compliment, and I'd like to say that...you've done the same for me.
kramer		Now, Striker...hold your present heading, put down full flap, bring your air speed back to a hundred and thirty-five, then I want you to take hold of the throttle...
hinshaw		And stick it in your ear.
kramer		And stick it in your ear.
hinshaw		 I'll be good, I will, I will.
gunderson		Captain, he's dropping off fast. Almost seven hundred.
kramer		Striker, get back to a thousand feet!
gunderson		He's below seven hundred now and he's still going down! 675! 650! 625! 600!
kramer		Striker, you're coming in too low! What's your altitude?
gunderson		He's right on the heading.
kramer		All right, he's on final now! Put out all runway lights except niner.
kramer		Turn on your landing lights, Striker. It's the switch above your right knee.
kramer		All right, now just listen carefully. You should be able to see the runway at three hundred feet.
kramer		Aim to touchdown a third of the way along. There's a slight crosswind from the right, so be ready for it.
kramer		If you land too fast, use your emergency brakes. The red handle is right in front of you.
kramer		If that doesn't stop you...
kramer		If that doesn't stop you, cut the four ignition switches over the co-pilot's head.
striker		See them, Elaine?
elaine		Uh-huh.
kramer		Do you see us now? You should be able to see the field now.
kramer		Yeah -- too quiet.
kramer		 Striker, you're coming in too fast!
kramer		 Sound your alarm bell now.
randy		All right, now, everybody get in crash positions.
elaine		Airspeed one twenty-five, one thirty...
hinshaw		Just kidding!
elaine		...one thirty-five, one forty.
kramer		Striker, now listen to me. You're coming down too fast!
striker		It's stuck. It won't move!
kramer		Bring it down! Easy!
kramer		Remember your brakes and switches! Get ready to flare it out! You're coming in too fast! Watch your speed!
kramer		You're coming in too hot! Put down full flaps! Watch your nose!
kramer		Now ease her down! Down!
kramer		Lift the nose! Throttle back!
kramer		The brake! Pull the red handle!
kramer		 Hold her steady, hold her steady!
kramer		Pull a lever!
kramer		Push a button!
kramer		 You're too low! You're too low!
randy		Can we help arrange hotel accommodations or a rent-a-car during your stay in Chicago?
hinshaw		 Wheel me to the West Wing. I wish to view the Degas.
striker		 Yeah, we're okay.
kramer		Ted, that was probably the lousiest landing in the history of this airport. But there are some of us here...
randy		Hurry now. Please be careful.
kramer		...Lonliness, that's the bottom line. I was never happy as a child. Christmas, Ted, what does it mean to you? For me, it was a living hell. Do you know what it's like to fall in the mud and get kicked? In the head? By an iron boot? Of course you don't. No one does. That never happens. Sorry, Ted. Dumb question. Strike that.
****Dialogues from script :aladdin.txt****

****Dialogues from script :ali.txt****

sonny liston		 Gonna fuck you up. Gonna beat you like I's your daddy...
angelo dundee		TIME!
angelo dundee		TIME!!!
cassius		Sonny Liston: you ain't no champ! You a chump!  You want to lose your money, bet on Sonny. He know I'm great. He will go in eight!
a man		 ...210... Cassius Clay weighs 210 pounds.
cassius		 You sure you got that right...?
the man		218. Sonny Liston...the heavyweight champion of the world weighs 218 pounds...
bundini		Pounds of what?!
cassius		Pounds of ugly! He so ugly, sweat run backwards off his forehead to get away from his face! C'mon, bear! I turn you into a rug!! Rumble right now, man!
sonny liston		 Keep talkin', punk-ass faggot! I'll fuck you up like I's your daddy...
cassius		You whup me, I'll crawl out of the ring on my knees and catch the next jet plane out of the country.
jimmy cannon		 That a promise?
cassius		 ...you be the first eatin' his words!
the doctor		 210 over 110?! I can't let him in the ring in this condition!
reporters		 ...odds 7:1 against you. Big bet's whether he'll knock you out in the first round or third round or kill you altogether. You scared of him?
cassius		I'm scared of no man. I give Sonny Liston talking lessons, boxing lessons and falling down lessons.
cassius		"Black Muslim"'s a press word...
angelo dundee		Man's religion's his own business. What kinda question's that?
angelo dundee		 Howard!
howard cosell		...cannot stand you, Cassius.   He really wants to kill you...
cassius		Howard Cosell, you are an instigator!  How you get that way? When I'm done with Liston, I'm comin' for you!
doctor		 It doesn't come down, I cancel this fight. You call me in an hour with his blood pressure.
bundini		 I'm called Bundini, rhymes with Houdini. He was a Jew, too...some other people call me Fastblack...or Daddy Mac...
cassius		Who Shorty?
bundini		I call him Shorty 'cause he like 'em circumcised. Original people. Like Moses. And I was a babe in a basket, too. I was born on a doorstep with a note 'cross my chest that read, "Do the best you can for him, world." I had to suck the first nipple come along. I didn't run away from home...I been runnin' to home.
cassius		...I study every fight. 'Til I got a plan. Wear him down two through four. Drop him in the fifth round. So the p'diction ain't a p'diction. It's a plan. And 'cause of all the poppin' off I do, I know I gotta win! That's the truth. And why I'm tellin' you?
bundini		'Cause I'm gonna be your Inspiration. Your motivator. In your corner. Can I be in your corner, young man?
cassius		 Yeah...
bundini		 Ain't spent much time in Miami. Where the water?
pacheco		120 over 80?  You should be asleep...
cassius		When you get back?
rudy		I'm gonna find Mom and Dad.
cassius		You could have stayed. Nobody gotta hide when they with me.
angelo dundee		 He's right.
cassius		He was supposed to kill me.   Well, I'm still alive.
announcer		 He's opened a cut on Liston. Liston's never been cut!
cassius		 He's nothin' to me...
cassius		...my eyes!
cassius		 My eyes! I can't see...somethin' in my eyes!
cassius		 Cut 'em off! Cut 'em!   I'm blind.
angelo dundee		No. You quit, it's over! Get out there. Be a yardstick. This is the big one, daddy. Get out there and run!
howard cosell		 ...Clay, a round ago, looked like he'd about had it, but in round six...
cassius		I upset the world! I am the greatest! I am the greatest!
howard cosell		What made him so easy for you?
cassius		I told you. Didn't I tell you?
howard cosell		Was there any single point you knew you had him?
cassius		I had him in the first round. 'Cause I'm the greatest!  Sam... Hey, Sam! Let him up.
gordon davidson		...I don't care what should have been ordered! We need a victory party right now. 
girl		Why's he so scared?
cassius		The Mummy! "I can't get away from the mummy!" Yeah, but that mummy too slow to catch anybody.
sam cooke		Hey!   The mummy always gets his man...
cassius		No, he don't!  Now, don't believe that stuff on television...
a reporter		The people look to you. Do you plan on being a people's champ, like Joe Louis?
cassius		 But not like Joe Louis, exactly...
a reporter		 Mr. Clay...?
reporters		 You a card-carrying member?    Aren't Black Muslims a hate group?
cassius		 "Card-carrying"...? Don't need no "card." You got a Christian card? 750 million people believe in Islam. I'm one of them.
cassius		I'm going to be a people's champion. But I don't have to be the way you want me to be. I'm gonna be what I want. And I'm free to think any way I want...
cassius		 ...watchin' a show on termites...they knockin' down this house, here.
cassius		Six million in your house and you don't know it. Where?
cassius		Africa? No. Only Rome.      Yeah, man, let's go!
cassius		When we leaving?
cassius		 What is it?
cassius		 Tore out a picture of Emmett Till when I was little. Couldn't take my eyes to it...couldn't look at it. Barb-wire around his neck to a 75- pound cotton-gin fan. Took out his eye. The cruelty to it...I couldn't look at it...couldn't throw it away.
cassius		I thought, "What I do wrong to be so low that people could do that to people like me?" It made me feel ashamed. And that makes no sense. But that's what it was.
cassius		You can fix that...
elijah muhammad		Only after long service and high merit in the spiritual and physical rebirth of Afro-American people...is one granted an original name. But you are special. A world champion. So there is a gift I wish to give you. From this day forward you will be known as Muhammad Ali...which means "one worthy of praise," and Ali means "most high."
cassius		 "Worthy of praise..." Thank you!
elijah muhammad		 Be very careful what you say...your words reflect on the nation of Islam, now.
cassius		Yes, sir.
elijah muhammad		 I do not feel this is a wise course anymore.
cassius		 This is a great honor, Messenger...
a neighbor		One more.  Thank you.
ali		When the contract run out. I want black lawyers and managers. Chauncey Eskridge on North La Salle Street...
ali		I don't need no "protectin'" from myself. Why I need protecting from myself by them...?
ali		I ain't one of their thoroughbreds! Or their charity things. "Let's do somethin' for that well-behaved colored boy, Cassius." I ain't well-behaved nothing! I am a man.
ali		That's right.
ali		No one "made me"...
ali		 No one's in that ring but me!
ali		I know who I'm not...I'm not drinkin'! Goin' back on my wife! I am not prayin' to no blue-eyed, blonde-haired Jesus. I ain't...
odessa clay		You didn't get it from me...your words, your sense of humor, what makes you angry, what makes you a fighter. You got that from your daddy...
ali		You saying I'm just like him?
odessa clay		I'm saying, if he was your age today, he'd do the same as you. And he knows that.
betty shabazz		 Malcolm?
betty shabazz		Go anyway. Don't put it off.      It's not safe here. ONE OF HIS CHILDREN  Mommy...the bath's ready...
ali		 Hey, man, where they put the real pilot? What you doin' up here?
pilot		 Here, Mr. Clay, sit down...
ali		No, man, I meant...in L'ville, when I growed up, they barely let black folks drive buses.
the pilot		Here we are. Cote d'Ivoire...Africa.
marlin thomas		 Anything?
the man		...on the phone with his wife. She's having a hard time sleeping...baby's kicking a lot...
marlin thomas		Motor Pool, here, have a Chevy parts catalogue...?
ali		Hey, man!!!
ali		We just got here now...  And, maaan, the brothers were flyin' a DC 8. Flippin' switches, navigatin', filing flight plans, talkin' French...
ali		Man, where should I go?   We're planning on Egypt.
bradley		 Un moment...
bradley		 Il n'y a pas de quoi. Cela m'a fait grand plaisir. Faites-lui mes compliments.
marlin thomas		Malcolm bumped into Cassius Clay. Muhammad Ali...whatever he calls himself...
bradley		I thought that was all over. Is Clay going to support Malcolm's U.N. resolution?
marlin thomas		I don't know.
bradley		Find out. We'll pick up on Malcolm in Liberia ourselves.
ali		 ...shouldn't have quarreled with the Honorable Elijah...
ali		You shouldn't have quarreled with Elijah Muhammad.
ali		Sonji...Sonji Roi...
sonji		 What you keep sayin' my name for?
ali		'Cause I love it, girl. How long you been workin' for Herbert?
sonji		'Bout a year. I sell "Muhammad Speaks" over the phone...
ali		What kind of name is that?
sonji		My father named me after Sonja Henie.
ali		What's your father do?
sonji		He was shot in a poker game when I was two. He don't do nothin'. Sonja, on the other hand, was an ice skater, and my mother died when I was eleven.
ali		So who raised you?
sonji		Godparents, but I been on my own, doing my own thing...
ali		Whatcha doin' tomorrow?       Go ridin' with me.
sonji		No.   I gotta work, you know.
ali		I square it with Herbert.       I got a record player in my car.
sonji		A record player?     C'mon.    How come it don't skip?
ali		Got springs and stuff.
sonji		Herbert said you met The Beatles.
ali		Yeah. Only one of 'em's smart...the one with the glasses.
sonji		...he's my favorite.
ali		People all screaming and fainting. I asked him, "This the way they act when you get big?"
sonji		What he say?
ali		He said, "Champ. The more real you get, the more unreal it gonna get."
sonji		Wow...
ali		Let's go...
sonji		Yeah...
ali		 Where you live?
sonji		I'm takin' you there...
ali		I think I gonna keep you around forever, girl.
sonji		 Well, I'm not too busy right now, so...I'll think on it.
ali		Herbert said you weren't a Muslim.
sonji		Cover my hair? No make-up?     Long dresses? Honey, please.  Were you a virgin?
ali		Why?
sonji		 'Cause you so "gone" off a little good time.
ali		I'm no virgin...but I may as well be.  I ain't jokin'! I always know when I know. See this face? I mean, you got a pretty face for a girl's face, but you ever seen somethin' as pretty as me? Now, you about five-foot-three...that's too small. But I overlook that, too, 'cause...
sonji		 Thank you so much.
ali		...'cause of your spirit!
sonji		My "spirit"...?
ali		Yeah.   'Cause you too much fun!
sonji		You serious?
ali		But you gotta be a Muslim.
sonji		Huh? How you do that? Step over a broom...shazaam...you a Muslim?
ali		Maaan, I ain't never been with a girl like you.
sonji		Baby, maybe you ain't ever gonna be with any other.
herbert		What?
ali		That's right.   I wanna marry her.
herbert		You can't marry that girl! She was a date! Have some fun! She's not your wife! You don't marry this girl.  Sign there. Management papers. My father will kill me.
bundini		True love!
bingham		Watch what you signing, Ali.
herbert		 Nothing to do with you.
bingham		You talkin' to me, or someone walk inna room, fat boy? Anything's do to with me I think's to d-d-do with me...I'm st-st-still a Christian.
ali		 And get me a kosher cook...lady who cooks at Malcolm's temple. Put my brother on the payroll. 50g a year for drivin' and jivin'.
herbert		Lana Shabazz...
ali		Yeah. How 'bout it, Howard. You be my official full-time photographer.
bingham		I ain't goin' on your payroll. I like it freelance. Emphasis on "free."
herbert		Muhammad. She's not...for you. When I met her, she was working at a cocktail lounge with a bunny tail on her backside.
bundini		What were you doin' down at a cocktail lounge, Herbert? Sellin' "Muhammad Peeks"?
herbert		 Sober up and say something to this man, Bundini. You supposed to be his "inspiration."
bingham		You been s-s-saving it up, training, Champ. You can't unleash it on this girl all sudden. You may kill her! Maybe you should spread it around more before you tie it down.
ali		No. Marriage is the cornerstone of Muslim life.
herbert		Sonji Roi is not a Muslim!
ali		She gonna be a Muslim, now!  So fix it up, Herbert.
joe smiley		The idea was...to...make...Malcolm smaller, you know? Diminished; obscure? Not to turn him into a messiah. 
joe smiley		Thyroid. I got a stab wound in 1961. They took it out. We gotta talk about this guy, too.
ali		 What you drinkin'?
bundini		What am I drinkin'? Water's what I'm drinkin', champ! I'm a natural man...
ali		What's goin' on?     We're late.
bundini		Come on in...!  What's that?
room service		 What you wanted, isn't it...a water glass with vodka...?
bundini		That was before...
room service		Before what?
bundini		Before you showed up...
sonji		I fine runnin' around in all these cute short things for you. I submissive to you. But I ain't gonna be submissive to the Brother X's and what they think. They askin' me questions alla time anyway.
ali		What questions?!
sonji		I don't drink. I don't smoke. I converted to Islam for you and...
sonji		All except the dress! I ain't puttin' no bleached-out, double- ugly bedsheets on this body, honey! I'm normal!
the gathered		Wa-Alaikum-Salaam...
crazy man		Ambushed!
ali		What? CRAZY MAN  They killed Malcolm...they shot Malcolm.
ali		 You were the first...you walked me forward, my brother...you were the first...
sam cooke		 "Been a long, long time comin', but a change gonna come, yes it is..."
ali		meets Liston, nails him with a straight right. Ali begins baiting him, dancing. Liston tries to cut off the ring, jabbing ineffectually. Ali lets Liston in, pulls back, then pivots on his right foot, throws a short right and RAMP INTO SLO-MO...to see Liston not see it coming.
ali		Get up, sucker! Get up and fight! No one gonna believe this!
howard cosell		It's over; it's over!
sonji		You okay?  What's wrong?
ali		Why you done up like that?
sonji		I'm dyin' and...'cause this is how I dress! I dyin' for you out of worry...
ali		"Worry"...?
sonji		Yeah. And all you care about is if I look dull enough?
ali		The world looks at me, girl! What if I straightened my hair, live in the white suburbs? How I am says something!
sonji		 Well, sorry you don't like how I am...
ali		 Where's Herbert?
ali		What do I do...?
herbert		If you want, have no contact with her for ninety days. Then you make a public statement of divorce in the mosque, and Islamic law will be satisfied.
bundini		"Satisfied?"...satisfaction is not makin' it with the woman who send you to the moon?
ali		Please stay, Brother Herbert.
ali		I ain't dead!
cosmetologist		You got the prettiest eyes...
ali		Yeah?
bundini		He so pretty, when you look up "pretty" in the dictionary, he too pretty to be there.
ali		Huh?
ali		What you talking about?
bundini		Champ.   It's Eskridge...
ali		 You know about this?
ali		...I flunk their draft board test. Now, without testing if I am "wiser" or "worser," they decide I can go into the Army.
howard cosell		Cassius, it is my opinion you...
ali		 And I'm not Cassius Clay. That's a slave name. I'm a free man. I'm Muhammad Ali.
howard cosell		 You know, I apologize to you. On the air. Your name is Muhammad Ali. You have the right to be called whatever you want.
ali		 You make a lot of mistakes for a so-called educated man. You really go to law school?
howard cosell		Yes, Muhammad. And to think I gave up a lucrative practice for the likes of you.
ali		I'm the best thing that ever happened to you, Howard Cosell. Without me you be a tall white man with a microphone in his mouth.
howard cosell		 And without me...you'd be a mouth.
howard cosell		 Have a little coffee with your sugar...?
ali		Keep talking. You were saying something half-smart...
howard cosell		They want to make an example out of you.
ali		Why? I'm no Stokely Carmichael, H. Rap Brown...
howard cosell		All they are is political. They tell people how they ought to be. But you are the HEAVYWEIGHT CHAMPION of the WORLD. You're important. And they don't like your militancy, your politics. So, they'll make an example out of you.
ali		...of a good "Ne-gro," who do what he told?
howard cosell		Yes. Or, to demonstrate here is what happens to your ass if you don't...
chauncey eskridge		 You do six weeks basic...you go into the Reserves...you don't go to Vietnam...you get to box...you even get to keep the money...
herbert		 The Messenger would not object if you joined under these terms.
ali		I stay out of jail and I get to fight. HERBERT  All you have to do is accept the induction. And life goes on.
chauncey eskridge		They call your name. You say yes.
ali		 Yes.
a man		 Federal Bureau of Investigation. Mr. Clay, you're under arrest for refusing induction...
ali		 That's a joke, man...!
bingham		You know what you j-j-just said...?
lipsyte		From Europe to China...every home in America...the world's gonna know what the heavyweight champion of the world said about the U.S. war...
ali		So what?  I ain't gonna be what anybody else want me to be. I'm not afraid to be what I want. And think how I want.
ali		 People are following me...
bob arum		I got almost nowhere I can promote a fight for you. Plus, I think they're going to vacate you from the crown.
ali		What?
bob arum		Yeah.   If you're convicted.
ali		They gonna take away what no fighter in the world can?
bob arum		And New York may revoke your boxing license.
chauncey eskridge		You sure you want to do all this?  Your next three to four years are every heavyweight's prime. And there are few of those years...
ali		What 'bout Terrell?
bob arum		We'll know if we can fight Terrell in Illinois this afternoon. Terrell's running his mouth. He said if you're called, you should serve...
ali		 Motherfucker. He got a deferment for bein' too tall, or havin' flat feet. Why don't he serve for me? Tellin' me what I should do...
bob arum		 I got to get you some fights.    Fast.
commissioner		You understand we could take away your license to fight Terrell in Illinois?
ali		Yes.
commissioner		Are you prepared to apologize? About your unpatriotic remarks that you made?
ali		Apologize? No.
commissioner		You said that you were the people's champion.
ali		 Yes, sir!
commissioner		Do you think you're acting like the people's champion...?!
ali		Yes, sir. I am not going to apologize to you. This isn't a courtroom. And I don't have to sit here and answer your questions.
ali		I ain't draft dodgin'! I ain't goin' to Canada. I ain't burnin' my draft card. I ain't burnin' the flag. I'm stayin' right here. And you want to throw me in jail? Go ahead. I'll do my time. I been in jail four hundred years. I'll be in jail four, five more. But I ain't goin' ten thousand miles to help murder and kill poor people for you. 'Cause if I'm gonna die, I'll die now, right here, fighting you. If I wanna die. You my enemy, not Vietcong or Chinese or Japanese. You my opposer when I want freedom. You my opposer when I want justice. You my opposer when I want equality. You want me to go somewhere for you, but you won't even stand up for me in America, for my rights and beliefs, you won't even stand up for me here at home.
ernie terrell		 Tell Clay he can get on after me.
ali		What...?
ernie terrell		Get on the scale after...
ali		 What you call me...?
ernie terrell		Only thing I knows you as:   Cassius Clay!
ali		 Announce it right here or from flat on your back!
ali		What's my name, motherfucker?!
ali		 If the court would give me my sentence right now instead of waiting and stalling.
judge ingraham		 Fast enough? Your attorney will lodge an appeal. While you're out on bond, I order your passport surrendered. I'll not have you benefitting yourself by fighting abroad...
ali		Watch now...
belinda		 See, you don't need to fight no more...
ali		So what's fresh, girl?
belinda		 Everything fresh!
ali		 What's the freshest of the freshest?
belinda		 Doughnuts just came out...
ali		 645 pounds. I'd still be pretty...but I be fat pretty...
belinda		You don't remember when you met me once before...long ago...
ali		 I remember something...   Wha's your name?
belinda		You know my name! You came to my school, right before you win the title. Interviewed you for the school paper. I was eleven.
ali		You had a long braid...
belinda		Yeah! You called me little Indian girl, then.
ali		That was you?
belinda		I loved you then, like all those kids. I never stopped. I still do.
ali		You see the Ellis-Quarry fight?
chauncey eskridge		Yes... We'll be in front of the U.S. Court of Appeals next month. We'll lose. Then we appeal to the Supreme Court.
ali		Ellis the champ? Man. I beatin' on him since we was sixteen. They give Ellis to Joe Frazier? Frazier'll kill him. Then they out of juice. Where's the gate? So they gotta let me fight. I fight Ellis in a phone booth...middle of Times Square...you think that draw a crowd?
chauncey eskridge		Draw a crowd or not draw a crowd, Muhammad, is NOT going to make a difference with your boxing licenses. They don't want you to fight.  ACLU's handling your case against the New York Boxing Commission. They discovered New York's got actual ex-murderers and ex-rapists currently licensed to fight. But revoked yours...?
ali		Tijuana? CHAUNCEY ESKRIDGE No. State Department refused permission for the one-hour visa. No fight in Tijuana. Look...
ali		Can't fight here. Can't fight outside the country...
chauncey eskridge		I know people in the restaurant business...want to start up a chain. Muhammad Ali's "Champ Burger"..."Muhammad Malts," "Fist Full of Fries"...all of that.
ali		Why I want to be in the restaurant business?!
chauncey eskridge		'Cause you need the money.
ali		How much all this gonna cost?
chauncey eskridge		Too much.    They do that to you, too, you know.
ali		 Look out!
customer		Hey, champ!
ali		Not then...
belinda		First time? 1961...Sister Khalilah introduced you at assembly. You said you would be heavyweight champion of the world by the time you were twenty-one!
ali		I always tell the truth...
belinda		I was eleven. I interviewed you for the student paper. You called me "little Indian girl," 'cause I wore my hair real long, in a braid...I told you..."Man, you scribble! You can't even write! You ought to go back to school until you do it better..."
jimi hendrix		 "There must be some kind of way outta here, said the joker to the thief..."
jimi hendrix		"No reason to get excited, the thief, he kindly spoke. There are many here among us, who feel that life is but a joke."
jimi hendrix		"But you and I, we've been through that, and this is not our fate. So let us not talk falsely now, the hour it's getting late..."
chauncey eskridge		...struck out at the appellate level in New Orleans. So we're heading back to the Supreme Court...
ali		Thought we already got turned down there.
chauncey eskridge		I'm petitioning on a conscientious objection basis. Religious belief. We'll petition that your sincere religious belief prohibits you from shooting people. I believe they'll hear that...
ali		Where the money come from, Chauncey? Herbert tell me I'm runnin' on empty. Put aside "how do that happen"? Licenses all revoked. No passport. I can't fight here. Can't fight abroad.  And what happen if I lose the Supreme Court?
chauncey eskridge		It's all over. You go to jail for five years.
jimi hendrix		"Outside in the cold distance, a wild cat did growl, two riders were approaching, and the wind began to HOWL!"
bingham		Ellis doesn't belong in there.
ali		 Man give him a shot, he took a shot.
bingham		I saw Bundini in New York.
ali		How's he?
bingham		...bad shape. You better get your belt b-b-back... Belinda brings coffee to Bingham...
bingham		You call your parents, Ali?
belinda		No, he didn't. I told them about the one on the way...myself. 
bingham		You p-p-p-promised you'd call them.
ali		I'll call 'em, I'll call 'em...  May-may! It go in one end and come out the other.
belinda		You wanna try changing her, for the experience?
ali		You so much better at it, mama.
belinda		That happen, you promise me you put some new people around you.
ali		I need Angelo, Rudy, Ferdie --
bingham		Ali, she's talkin' about "Brother" Herbert.
belinda		Where are they when we need them? You got Gene Kilroy droppin' off groceries like charity. Borrowin' money from my folks. So...?
frazier		 Norton's big and strong, but...
howard cosell		 Hold on one second...we have a caller. Go ahead.
howard cosell		Let's tell it like it is. With your court and boxing problems, Muhammad, can you get a fight promoted?
ali		I ain't interested in the paycheck, I'd fight Joe Frazier for free in a phone booth in Times Square, if I wasn't broke. I still will.
howard cosell		Did you say you were broke?   How can you be broke?
howard cosell		You've made more money than all previous heavyweight champions combined. What about your management? Surely they have provided for you...
ali		I'm saying it's time for everybody to quit lying! Muhammad Ali is the champ! I have to, I'll get the fight on myself.  And if they offer me money, I ain't gonna turn it down.
elijah muhammad		Get me my son, Herbert, on the telephone!
elijah muhammad		Mr. Muhammad Ali desires to do that which the Holy Qur'an teaches him against. I am, therefore, suspending Mr. Ali from the practice of Islam. He may no longer appear in temple, pray or teach, or have any conversation with any Muslim whatsoever. Furthermore...he may no longer use the name of Muhammad Ali. Henceforward, he will revert to his old slave name, Cassius Clay.
belinda		Muhammad...?
ali		You can't call me that no more.
belinda		Hell, I can't. I'm defying them by talking to you. And being with you.
ali		Whyn't you call an ambulance or a doctor?
landlady		 Wouldn't let me. Said he knew you...and to call you, Mr. Ali... He's not been out for three days...
bingham		Bundini!
bundini		 Watchu' doin' here? Gimme that short dog!
ali		What's wrong with you, man?!
bundini		Nothin' wrong with me!
bingham		A mystery...d-d-d-daylight...
bundini		 Leave me alone!
ali		I leave you alone.   You called me!
bundini		That were a week ago...
ali		What you shame yourself like this for, maaan...?! Why you shame yourself?!
bundini		Lemme alone!  I'm flyin'! The Sky Chief talk through me. I know the word!
ali		You know "low." You so low, the curb look like up!
bundini		 Yeah? The king gotta go home to his throne! From the root to the fruit...!
ali		Those rhymes is old.    Forget 'em.
bundini		 Yeah...
ali		 Yeah.
bundini		Forgive me, Muhammad.    Take me back...
ali		No. There's no "back" to take you to...
ali		 ...you can't do what you do best in the world. And how you feed your family? From prison? Who take care of your kids? And is Allah, is God with me?
howard cosell		 Don't bother me. I'm a world- famous broadcaster and you're an ex-champion with diminished skills. I can't be seen you, it would be calamitous to my reputation.
ali		Put me on, Howard. HOWARD COSELL Muhammad, I'd do anything for you. But I got bosses who only give a damn about Nielsen ratings.
ali		I guarantee...it will be a historical and momentous night!
ali		...what Heavyweight Champion of the World? I'm not the champ. I am retired, finished, out of the game. And I ain't gonna let myself grieve and suffer none. But I know I will not fight again...
howard cosell		I thought you were resolute in your resolve to regain your crown...
ali		If tomorrow they say: "We want you to fight Joe Frazier. Madison Square Garden. Millions and millionses of dollars. Here's your license back." I will tell them: "I am sorry, but I am done."
howard cosell		What about Frazier?
ali		You'll have to wonder...what me and Smokin' Joe would have looked like.
howard cosell		You surprise me, Muhammad...
ali		Howard, you losing your hearing along with your hair? Don't put questions to it!  I am through fighting. 'Cause I got a bigger and more important match comin' up. The U.S. government. A heavier contender. HOWARD COSELL Do you think you're going to jail?
ali		I don't know, but it's going to be a shocking and terrible fight. In fact, they might wish they let me stay in boxing.
howard cosell		Joe Frazier told me on this show he would knock you out.
ali		There you go, agitatin'. 
ali		I don't wanna fight no more.   Not with you...
ali		Who dress you, Joe?   You look like Dale Evans.
frazier		Shut up.    Get in.
ali		To be closer to you, honey.
frazier		Fuck you.
ali		There be two undefeated heavyweight champions! And they ain't fighting!
frazier		I wanna fight you! Said it a hundred times. The Man won't let you fight no more. What you complainin' to me for? ALI 'Cause you gotta get behind this and we gotta do this.
frazier		We..."gotta" do nothin'!!!
ali		You wanna get this on, Joe?     You and me? Or not?!
frazier		What about your license?
ali		I can fight in Atlanta.
frazier		How's that? What about the Boxing Commission?
ali		Georgia ain't got no state boxing commission. And Atlanta got a black city council; a liberal Jewish mayor, Sam something. It all set. I do a prelim in Atlanta with Jerry Quarry. But we got to get the steamroller movin' now.
frazier		What I got to do?
ali		You announce that if I beat Quarry you give me the title shot.  So what you say...maaan?
frazier		My daddy was a sharecropper. I worked in a slaughterhouse...right on that corner. I came up from nothing.  What I got, I got with this. And I already got the title. So I got nothing to win and everything to lose.
ali		But you know you ain't the champ yet.
frazier		 All right. You beat Quarry, I'll get inna ring and fuck you up...
ali		 I'm fine. Thanks.
angelo dundee		TIME!!
bundini		Take me back, boss.
ali		You want me to take you back?
bundini		I'm clean. 
ali		 You can't hit what you can't see.
bundini		You the man! You Superman! Ain't no kryptonite in this ring tonight!
belinda		 ...you don't need their management...
herbert		As-Saalam Alaikum...Brother Muhammad...
ali		All praise to Allah...  ...Alaikum Salaam...
herbert		 The Messenger has lifted the suspension, Muhammad. Congratulations.
ali		You saying I can be a Muslim again, Herbert?
herbert		Yes.
ali		 I never stopped. Like I never stopped being champ.
herbert		I begged my father to reinstate you.
ali		When? After I promoted Quarry fight? After I won it?
herbert		We can get you Frazier.
ali		I already got Frazier.
herbert		We can get you five million dollars for Frazier.
ali		Are we talking management, talking money or talking religion?
herbert		When you...
ali		 When I got leery and talked up how come I'm broke, then came the suspension. Now, you explain that to me, my brother...?
herbert		It's my father... ALI  I love the Nation, Herbert. I love Elijah Muhammad. But it don't own me.
herbert		My brother!
ali		Yeah...
bingham		You b-b-becoming a Christian? Forgive and forget?
howard cosell		Muhammad, you T.K.O.'ed 'em...
ali		What are you talking about, Howard? Quarry?
howard cosell		 You won an 8-0 unanimous decision. You're free.
ali		I'm free. ANGELO DUNDEE What are you talking about?
ali		Supreme Court set me free.
bundini		That's 'cause they know the king is gonna go home to his throne. And they know everybody's with you, now. And they wanna be on the RIGHT side!
announcer		Ladies and gentlemen, fifteen rounds of boxing for the heavyweight championship of the world...
announcer		And in the opposite corner, the current heavyweight champion of the world, Smokin' Joe Frazier...!
ali's eyes		deep in his focused concentration. His attention so arrow like it reminds us of the younger man in the Liston fight...pure purpose.
angelo dundee		Hell of a fight, champ...
ali		Shut up! I lost.  Get outta here...
rudy		Go on!   Everybody out!
angelo dundee		 It was still a hell of a fight.
ali		Where's Belinda?
pacheco		She fainted... They took her to the aid station. She's okay.
ali		My hands was in sand, Angie.     My feet in water...
angelo dundee		Maybe we shoulda had more time between Blin and this, you know...to get back into...
ali		Woulda, shoulda, coulda...  After three-and-a-half years, this...from how far back...comeback is.
press		Were you robbed?
ali		I lost. You lose, you don't shoot yourself. The world goes on.
another reporter		Joe said he didn't think you wanted to fight him again...
ali		 Oh, how wrong he is.
belinda		My God.    They killed you!
pacheco		Get away from her.     What is that?
ali		I ain't dead, baby!     C'mon.
ali		I can move my jaw with my tongue. He got me...
pacheco		 It's broke. I think...I think your jaw's broke.
pacheco		nods to Dundee. Dundee starts to reach. Ali snatches Angelo's hand holding the towel. Angelo's about to end the fight...
ali		Ain't stoppin' nothin'...!  Nothin' stoppin'...!
herbert		Now that Smokin' Joe's run out of tomato cans to beat up, I finally got Yank to commit to a rematch with you in about six months. Frazier said he'd be happy with three mil... 
ali		 Foreman call me one time after he won the Olympics...
howard cosell		 DOWN GOES FRAZIER! DOWN GOES FRAZIER!
bingham		 B-b-be easy gettin' a Frazier fight now. He ain't the champ of anything except getting knocked down.
ali		So.
angelo dundee		So we only eked this one out. And George Foreman makes Frazier look like a sissy.
pacheco		You see their fight?
howard bingham		You mean the Joe Frazier falling- down lesson?
pacheco		And Foreman is 24. You are 32 years old. I don't want to see your head get turned into someone's bull's-eye.
angelo dundee		...but, you go? We're the corner, same as always. But it ain't gonna be easy.
ali		 You think I still got the tools?
angelo dundee		You got the tools, Daddy.     But they different.
ali		 Well, you better sharpen 'em up. 'Cause we goin' to Africa. BUNDINI The motherland. From the root to the fruit. We gonna rumble...in the jungle.
ali		It's time to be heavyweight champion of the world again.
bundini		Yeah, man!
don king		"Rumble in the Jungle!"     That's the name I given it.
reporters		Don. Zaire? Why not Antarctica? What's wrong with New York City?
don king		Because you miss the significance. I dream, as Martin Luther King once dreamt, that a man could be judged by the content of his mind. This is about black men helping black men, overcoming four hundred years of racial depression to the dawn of a new day of liberation...financial and otherwise.
ali		Man, you crazy.
don king		Ten million dollars. With one stroke of the pen, you split the world's biggest emolumation of the history of sports!
ali		 What are they saying, man?!!!    Why they saying that?
ali		 What?!
ali		Ali, boma ye!
ali		 Fast. Six left jabs flash from his chest and shoulder, followed by a right hook and left and right uppercuts.
kids		Ali, boma ye!
ali		 Ali, boma ye George Foreman!
teenager		 You beat them, Ali!
ali		Foreman?   I kill him!
ali		 ...even if I die here. If it kill me, no matter what...I gotta win.
ali		Howard! How many you ugly sportswriters in there got me over Foreman? Don't lie.
howard cosell		 Some of us...Norman, me...are worried. How you gonna dance against George?? He's sparring with a middleweight, training to cut you off. He gets you against the ropes, he can knock you out with either hand.
ali		 What's the odds?
howard cosell		Two-and-a-half-to-one. Against. We're worried you're going to get hurt.
ali		This'll be the biggest upset since Sonny Liston. I want all of you to write it down! This fight is no contest!
howard cosell		Muhammad, I'm sorry. I have to ask.  Are you really fast enough, anymore? To beat George Foreman? Many people believe you don't have the same skills, that you are not the same man you used to be ten years ago.
ali		Howard. I didn't want to talk about this, especially in front of everybody. But I talked to your wife! And she told me you're not the man you used to be...two years ago!
ali		Salaam Alaikum, brothers!  The champ is here!
belinda		Here's your water.
ali		Bottled water. Frozen steaks. Brought all this stuff like Africans don't have steaks...
belinda		You could pick up parasites...
ali		They eat it.
belinda		You're seeing what you want to see, Muhammad...
ali		Mobutu eats it...
belinda		Mobutu is taking care of Mobutu and stealing all the wealth and sending it to Switzerland...
ali		 So? What's that do with any of why we here?
belinda		 We're here 'cause Don King got Mobutu to put up ten million dollars. Don King don't give a damn about Africa. He worse than Herbert.
ali		Here come "Herbert."
belinda		Yeah. 'Cause where was he when we was broke and borrowing money? And Bundini and all them that "love you"? Disappeared, is where they were.  All over you when you got it and drop off you when you don't...
ali		Money? I do "money-making" whenever I want. Money is easy.
belinda		 And Don King fit right in...that double-breasted hipster is now a dashiki-wearing rip-off.
ali		Don King delivered the first black- promoted championship fight in Africa!
belinda		Don King talks black, lives white and thinks green! Why you defending him and "brother" Herbert? 
ali		'Cause clean-cut Muslims parading on the South Side of Chicago don't get this done! I got to put honkeys with connections and bad- ass niggers to it, too.
belinda		 And now they got you up against George Foreman. Do they give a damn you could get killed?
ali		That what this is? Think I gonna lose? Puttin' doubt on me?
belinda		 I think: why is my Muslim husband letting himself get strung up on a cross...? It means, "tell me."
ali		Sure.
belinda		I'll be back before the fight.  If that's all right, my husband...
don king		 Champ! Champ! George had an accident.
angelo dundee		 What are you talking about?
don king		Got cut. Right above his right eye. His sparring partner's elbow. Split it open, so...
angelo dundee		Can he fight?
don king		Not for six weeks.
angelo dundee		Are you tryin' to pull something, Don? Ali wants his title. And he wants it back in Zaire. George leaves, he ain't comin' back. George don't like it here.
don king		How right you are, my suspicious and short Italian brother. And my fiduciary responsibility to this first all-black promotion is like a garden in the African sun. It must grow! It must bloom! It cannot flower in the gloom and shade of postponement to some dome. Like the Astrodome, the Super-dome, any dome outta Zaire, where it be deprived of light and bled of water. 'Cause what gonna bleed...is money. A hemorrhage of cash.  ...blood on the floor. Double hotel costs. Double travel costs. Airplanes. Food and beverage...
angelo dundee		 What do you expect us to do, Don?
don king		 Muhammad. Find a way to get George to stay. Be Moses in reverse: do NOT let my people go! Stay the fuck right here, in Egypt, if you'll pardon my Swahili.
bingham		L-l-l-lingala.
don king		What?
bingham		Lingala.   They s-s-s-speak Lingala.
don king		Who cares?
angelo dundee		 If George goes? You forfeit five million. You crawl back to Cincinnati. You ain't promotin' a charity raffle...
don king		 If George goes? George goes, my champion, I will get you Joe Frazier. Ali-Frazier III...the fight everybody want to see. INT. PRESS CONFERENCE
ali		 Truth is...George knocked hisself out.
don king		 You bad!
ali		I'm a bad man!
don king		Ain't no doubt about it.
ali		And you tell the same thing to George.
don king		 We will reschedule the fight, and to ensure George is ready, we are thinking of postponing from September 24th to October 30th.
reporter		What about the concert, Don? DON KING That would go off as planned on September 22nd and 23rd.
ali		 Uh-huh. I want all helicopters guarded! Private boats. Private jets. I want the airport -- I'm serious -- I want President Mobutu and all his paratroopers. Mobutu and all his paratroopers. I want all of you "Zaireans" to be on guard! Watch all strange boats tryin' to slip away! They might be takin' him out.
angelo dundee		The bus station. It's Ali kidding on the square. A serious point delivered not seriously to be taken seriously.
ali		Yeah. Watch the bus station. Watch everything! Elephant caravans. He might sneak out by elephant.
angelo dundee		What you say?
don king		I ain't talkin' to you!
ali		 Hey!!!
veronica		I don't think so.
ali		What's your name?
veronica		Veronica Porche.
ali		Like the sports car.
veronica		 Yes.
ali		But with a little something extra.  Veronica, I know you now. C'mere, sit down.
veronica		Don brought me here, but I'm not "with"...anybody.
ali		Where you from?
veronica		L.A. But my people are from Louisiana. We're Creole. So I'm African, French, Spanish, my mother's grandfather was Jewish.
ali		 Well...they all came together real nice.
veronica		You know...  What you think?
veronica		Ali, boma ye.
plimpton type		...she's an African "succubus." Means witch doctor.
bundini		Succubus? Suck my dick. They ain't room in Africa for more than one witch doctor. And that's B'dini.
ali		You been to Hong Kong?   Taiwan? Thailand?
veronica		No.
ali		I can't go there. All the ladies out there from Indonesia, Japan, Hawaii, India...  The women were so pretty...
bingham		'B-b-b-bout Hong Kong, man?!   You know what I heard?
news cameraman		Champ...
ali		 Let's go for a ride.
ali		So why you glad we still here?
veronica		Holdin' this in Africa make people proud. All over the world. They're proud of you. Anybody can fight in Vegas.
ali		That's one job.    I got two...
veronica		Islamic faith help you to that?
ali		Listen, girl, as a Muslim, I am busted out and failed in the eyes of God. I shoulda discovered Islam at 50! 'Cause I am weak on women. They take my eyes and my heart follow...causing me to be a lovin' husband and a terrible husband...!  ...okay, rest of me, let's go!!
ali		 Faster! Faster!
dundee		 TIME!
holmes		You can't lead a right hand.   Not at him!
ali		Why not?
holmes		Too long...to get it there. Man, I mean, to think you could hit him with a right lead...it's insulting... Nobody would lead a right...
bundini		I got him! Lock him up.
sadler		 Hey, hold up, chump!   Make this chump turn me loose.
ali		Hey! Look! Look at George Foreman's trainer, feelin' me up on purpose! On the side, to see if I'm in shape!
irene		Can I have your autograph?
ali		We'll, you ain't gonna find no fat! Watch out!!
sadler		 Give me that thing!
bingham		 Muhammad. Give her an Ali button!
sadler		No, you ain't.  All right, give my wife an Ali button.
ali		She's gotta put it on.
sadler		Give my wife one. BINGHAM Bo'dini, you got Ali buttons?
ali		"George" buttons is all I got. In my bedroom! All over the bed! Everywhere! To remind me...of all of ya'. All of ya'! Reminds me of all ya'!
ortf interviewer		 Pardon. Vous tes de l'ambassade des Etats-Unis? Vous avez une prdiction?
ortf interviewer		 Excuse me. You are from the U.S. Embassy? Do you have a prediction?
bradley		 Je suis avec l'Agence amricane d'informations. Il ne m'est pas permis d'exprimer mes prfrences entre deux citoyens des Etats-Unis.
bradley		 I'm with the U.S. Information Agency. I'm not allowed to take favorites among two United States citizens...
angelo dundee		 He gone?
ali		Yeah.
belinda		Hello, Muhammad. Bingham.    Mr. Cosell.
howard cosell		 Hi...Mrs. Ali.
ali		When did you get in?
belinda		Just now. Muhammad, may I have a word with you, please?
belinda		What is going on?
ali		You know what's going on. 
belinda		But I don't have to have it thrown in my face. I don't have to read about it and have people call me up on the phone about it...
ali		I didn't mean for it to come out...
belinda		Oh, hell, Muhammad, you got no discretion. You never did. You humiliate me!
ali		I know that.
belinda		Then why you got to be visible with women?
ali		I didn't mean for it to be...
belinda		I live with the casual ones.  But this, this...I can't hold it together anymore. ALI I don't want to hurt you. It's wrong. You're a good wife to me.
belinda		Then why do you disrespect me this way?!
ali		I respect you.   I always respect you.
belinda		Do you love her?
ali		I follow my heart.
belinda		"You're following your heart"?  And what happens now?
ali		I fight George.  I didn't come this far to quit.
belinda		Neither of us did.
bingham		Belinda?
mobutu		 Invite Monsieur Idi to join me now... The Banker? The American?
lieutenant nsakala		 Countdown! Countdown!
rudy		Countdown is on, bro.   Five minutes.
ali		Thanks to Allah... 
lieutenant nsakala		 Four minutes!
angelo dundee		Give us a moment. Alone.  Hey. This is my religion!
ali		Why?
angelo dundee		Where you at?
ali		 Foreman ain't no mummy. He's knocked out eight out of eleven before the end of the third round. He the most dangerous fighter I ever fought.
angelo dundee		I'd worry if I was hearin' anything else.
ali		And I can't WAIT!
lieutenant nsakala		Three minutes!
angelo dundee		Dance.   That's the most important...
bundini		 Forget every battle of man against man, of mind against mind, of soul against soul. This is the one. This is the greatest.
lieutenant nsakala		Two minutes!
bundini		The prophet's come back to claim his own! Get the pretender off that throne!
lieutenant nsakala		 One minute!
the people		Ali! Ali! Boma ye, Ali!       Ali! Boma ye!
the people		Ali, boma ye! Ali, boma ye!      Ali, boma ye!
angelo dundee		George is playing prima donna.   He wants to make you wait.
crowd		Foreman!   Foreman!   Foreman!   Foreman!
clayton		Now, both of you know the rules. When I step back, I want a good, clean break.  No hitting below the belt, no kidney punches, no...
ali		Motherfucker, you 'bout to discover you ain't nothin'.
clayton		Ali, be quiet!
ali		 You been hearin' about me for years. All your life you been hearin' about Muhammad Ali. Now you gotta face me.
clayton		Ali, I'll disqualify you. Now, I want a good, clean, sportsman fight...
ali		 You never should have come to Africa.
clayton		 Now go to your corners and come out fighting when you hear the bell, and may the best man...win...
ali		 Legs heavy...air's heavy...like sand...
angelo dundee		...keep moving. Don't let him put you into the corner. Stay off the rope!
ali		That all you got...?   That it?
angelo dundee		Get off the ropes! Get off the ropes! Get off the ropes! Dance!
ali		 ...I cannot take.
bundini		Dance, dance!
dundee		Get off the ropes!   What are you doin'?!
ali		George!    Show me something.
ali		 ...been here before.
ali		 Open the door, Richard...outta this room... Put on your coat, man...get out...
angelo dundee		 Get off the goddamn ropes!!
ali		Took somethin' away from him, Angie, that round...
bundini		You gotta move! Stick and MOVE!
ali		 They don't know what's happenin'.
ali		 Take it! Terrify him with what you can take...
ali		 Eight more rounds... You runnin' outta gas?
ali		 Now...
bradley		 Ce soir, le Zaire a t le sujet central dans le tous les centres europens. Flicitations, Monsieur le Prsident pour la vie.
bradley		 Zaire was the center of the world tonight in every banking capital, all over Europe. Congratulations, President for Life.
mobutu		Yes. 
london banker		What's on the menu...?
ali		 Maan, everything is crazy.
belinda		...I didn't come this far to quit.
ali		You think you got a chance, chump? Now you in trouble.
****Dialogues from script :alien.txt****

****Dialogues from script :alien_3.txt****

first draft		March 29, 1990
brother kyle		Well would he guess the ascending of the star, Wherein his patient's fortunes settled were. He knew the course of every malady, Were it of cold or heat or moist or dry. Brother John, would-be Doctour of Physick.
brother kyle		Tend you quickly he will, with bottles from a shelf. But heals not, so easily, The ills which plague himself.
brother john		 Enough.
brother john		 Put those lungs of yours to better use.
brother kyle		Yes, Doc Tor.
john		Keep this from getting wet.  Go home at late afternoon mealtime and don't come back to work today --
burned monk		But John --
john		I'll tell the Abbot.  Just rest today. You're lucky you only burned yourself on the side of the furnace.  If some of that glass had gotten on your arm --
john		-- it would've burned clean through to the other side.
john		That's late afternoon.  Now get on.
burned monk		Thank you, John.  I --
john		You're welcome.  Go!
kyle		Good work.
john		All right, but I'm no Father Anselm.
kyle		You're yourself, that's better...
kyle		The Abbot will be pleased.
john		Don't.
kyle		Don't what?
john		Please don't tell him.  At least until I know if there's an infection.
kyle		You want to be the Abbey's Physician, and you haven't learned the first rule: Don't worry about the patient.
kyle		I shouldn't have. Sorry.  Look, I know how you must --
john		You don't, but thanks anyway.
kyle		Not coming down?
john		I have someone waiting for me.
john		Come on, Mattias.
philip		Brother John.
john		Brother Philip.
philip		Feeding the mind instead of the body again?
john		My training has taught me to feed what's hungry.
philip		As did mine.  As long as you're alone. Enjoy yourself -- and remember, no book leaves the library.
john		How could I forget?  Have a good meal...
john		Perfect.
abbot		Mind?  Just Philip, if he knew.  I passed him on the way up.  He said you'd come in alone.  I knew better.
abbot		Hello, Mattias.  How are you, boy?
abbot		You know what Philip says about Mattias' hair and his breathing.  You'll have to take him out of here.
john		He likes when I read to him and -- I can't --
abbot		 Someone must have left this one unlocked. Take the book with you.
john		Father, I --?
abbot		Kyle tells me you did a good job at the glassworks today.
john		I'll reserve judgement until the patient lives.
abbot		It will get easier.  Father Anselm was... an unexpected loss.  You'll do fine.
abbot		Just have it back before the end of lunch. Oh -- And I didn't see you in here.
john		Thank you.  Let's go upstairs, boy.
john		In the year of our Lord 1348 I, Brother Gerhado of the Minorite Abbey helped bury the Abbot and my sixty fellow monks, day by day, one by one, until I am the only one left.  I stayed as long as I could bear it, then with my dog --
john		- fled.  I have put this to parchment lest this pestilence - this Black Death - stay my hand.  This was finished by another hand...
kyle		John!  Wait -- !  Don't go in!
computer voice		 Seal broken...seal broken...
woman		...taking pod four.  The Crew of the SS Sulaco and all Marine commandoes are dead. Ship's sensors have interrupted the hyper sleep cycle.  An overlooked alien egg has hatched.  Bishop and Hicks have been killed. Xenomorphs have infested the cruiser.  Newt and I are taking pod four.  The Crew of...
kyle		John - what is it?  Is this a Supply ship?
john		No.  No supplies.  Kyle, there's someone in here --
second monk		This is forbidden.
kyle		John.  Just get the hell out of there --
john		I don't want to stay.  I have to get her out before this sinks.  You come in, give me a hand --
kyle		Her?  Look, this is not the supply ship, so this is technology forbidden to us. Get out of there now!
john		All right --
first monk		 A space ship...
second monk		 A woman...
kyle		You shouldn't have gone in --
john		I'm supposed to be a doctor.
john		She could've been lost.
first monk		Been a long time since I saw either.
second monk		It isn't sinking.  Look at it.  What are we supposed to do with it?
kyle		What was it like in there --?
john		Lights.  So many lights --
third monk		Tow it in.  Bring it in.
second monk		It's evil.
first monk		It's just technology.
second monk		Evil technology.  Look at these fish --
third monk		The Abbot will know what we should do with it --
kyle		Just lights?
john		Machines.  Buttons.  Metal.
second monk		See?  Just look at the fish.
third monk		The Abbot will know.
second monk		They're boiled.  These fish are boiled.
john		Thousands of lights.  Like the stars. Like Heaven on Earth.
ripley		Wait.  New...
ripley		AAAAAAAAAAAARGH!
john		You're out of it.  Out of it...
abbot		How is the woman, John?
john		I don't think she's here yet.
john		She is close, though.
ripley		What the hell --?
ripley		This must be a dream.  A bad one.
ripley		Who are you?
abbot		I am the Abbot.  Leader of this Colony. And you?
ripley		Ripley.  How did I get here?
abbot		Your vehicle crash landed.  Brother John found you and brought you here.
ripley		Where is here?
abbot		This is the Minorite Abbey within the manmade orbiter Arceon.
ripley		Can I use a radio to --
abbot		We have no radio here.  We are a monastic order that has renounced all modern technology.  We live the old way.  The pure way.
ripley		Uh, I - I still don't feel 100%.  Whoever took me out of the stasis tube must not have run the full D-F program... Where's Newt?
ripley		There was a little girl with me --
abbot		You were alone.
ripley		No.  She was with me.  I put her in her stasis tube -- We launched when the --
abbot		You were the only living thing found aboard that vessel.
ripley		 Oh, God.  Newt.
abbot		What came with you?
ripley		Listen -- there is a danger here.  It came with me.  How long have I been here?
abbot		Almost two days --
ripley		 Loose for two days.  This planet could be overrun within the week.
ripley		Look, there's a xenomorph --  An Alien creature.  A killer.  A monster. And now it's here.
ripley		Calm down, Ripley.  Okay, I was with a platoon of Colonial Marines on a mission to planetoid LV426.  We left Earth six months ago - maybe a year --
abbot		 Wait a moment --
abbot		Leave us.
abbot		Continue.
ripley		We launched in the Cruiser Sulaco from Gateway sub-orbital space station --
abbot		Not possible.
ripley		What do you mean?
abbot		When we left Earth seventy years ago, it was on the brink of a New Dark Age. Technology was on the verge of destroying the planet's environment.  A computer virus was threatening to wipe away all recorded knowledge.  There didn't seem to be any way it could be averted.  In the almost forty years since we were towed out here in hypersleep, the news that came with occasional supply ships only got worse. Finally, the ships stopped coming.  We had to resign ourselves to the fact that worst had come to pass, and the Earth no longer existed.
ripley		 Uh...All right... Forget the Earth - How many people do you have here?  Let's worry about them.  Warn them --
abbot		Your mind is troubled.  You need to rest some more.
ripley		I don't need rest - I need to get to your people.  You've got to get to them -- tell them about the alien --
abbot		I have had enough for now.
ripley		Enough?  Didn't you hear what I said? It could wipe out the entire population of this planet.  It may have started already - Have there been any unusual deaths since I got here?
abbot		No.  And there won't be.
abbot		Bolt it.
john		What is it -- What's wrong?
abbot		Your patient is in a dangerous mental state.  Nobody gets in or out until I say so.
john		But I.  Her meals --
abbot		Nobody.
john		Father, I don't understand --
hysterical monk		Brother John!  You're here!  The Abbot said you'd -- I need -- you're the medic --
john		What?!
hysterical monk		My Sandy -- she's ill --
john		Huh?  A woman?
hysterical monk		Sandy.  My ewe.
john		One of your sheep?  Jesus Christ. Call a vet.
hysterical monk		Father Anselm was the vet.
john		You're no help.  Okay, let me get my bag. All creatures great and small...
hysterical monk		I just gave her dinner and she keeled over.
john		So would I.  It's freezing in here.
hysterical monk		Been using the wood from the walls for the fire in my cabin.
john		Haven't we all...
john		May be pneumonia.  Pitch some of that hay around her.  Stop this damn cold breeze.
john		First, I'll --
john		Wait a minute...
hysterical monk		What is it?
john		I don't know.  It's all over the ground. Some sort of --
hysterical monk		What?!  WHAT?!
john		Jesus!  Help m --
ripley		Idiots...I'll --
ripley		What the -?
abbot		You heard Brother Graham tell of the devil inside sheep's wool --
abbot		An evil brought by this woman in her vessel of technology.
ripley		This can't be happening.
ripley		You must listen to me!  You're all in terrible danger!  It came with me on the ship --
abbot		We know that.  At first we believed its arrival was a good omen.  But it has only brought pestilence.  Dead sheep.  Dead fish.
ripley		Yes, the ship brought it.  Not evil. It brought the Alien.  I told you, it's here.
abbot		We know the name of the evil it brought. It brought technology.  Technology to destroy our planet, as surely as it destroyed the Earth.
ripley		I was on the Earth less than a year ago. It's still there.  People, cities, all still there!
abbot		 All dead.
ripley		 It's still there!
abbot		You could not have been on the Earth a year ago, because there is no Earth to be on -- for at least twenty years.
ripley		I haven't been floating in space for twenty years.  Let me get to my ship and I'll prove it.
tribunal member		This woman is a danger.  She denies The New Dark Age.  She denies reality.
ripley		This is reality.  There is a Xenomorph loose on this planetoid - a alien -- it must have stowed away on my ship -- must have killed --  Explodes out of you - keeps growing into some sort of monster.  Kills you -- Kills all of you...
ripley		Who are you people?  Look at you -- all of you -- the way you're dressed.  This isn't the Middle Ages.  You're in space -- on a artifical planet.  What are you doing out here?
ripley		Isn't there anyone here who will listen?
ripley		 I guess not.  I can't believe this...
abbot		Then there is no choice.
abbot		 The evil is inside you.  I cast you down. To be sealed away.  And God have mercy on your soul.
ripley		You won't be able to fight it... You don't know what it is --!
ripley		You've sentenced yourselves to death!
abbot		No trouble?
abbot		I had that wood earmaked for the Cloister next winter.  Well, we might not get to the winter if we don't take care of this. By winter time we can start taking the penitent cells apart.  No one in them.
abbot		Neither are we --
abbot		Go ahead.
john		This woman.  Ripley.  I tended her --
abbot		Yes, and you did a good job.  You shouldn't feel responsible.  You couldn't have known --
john		Please, sir, let me finish.  I feel that there may be something to what she says.
abbot		There isn't.
john		I don't understand what you are doing.
abbot		This colony is my responsibility.  I am protecting the colony.
john		From what?  This woman?  You never gave her a chance.  How can you be so sure you're right?
abbot		A better question is what makes you think I'm wrong?
john		You didn't see this thing -- this demon -- Brother Graham and I -- we both saw it.
abbot		 And what was it?
john		I -- I don't know what it was.  But I don't think Ripley was a party to it.
abbot		She admits she brought it.
john		But she tried to warn us --
abbot		You know that's how the devil works. Deception.
john		But I believe her.  I don't know how to describe it -- A feeling.
abbot		You haven't seen a woman in thirty years. Where does this feeling originate, John?
john		 Here.
abbot		I believe you.  But your feelings are fooling you.
john		It's - It's her conviction.  I just think --
abbot		Don't think.
abbot		It's been a long night.  For all of us. You really don't understand what you're dealing with here.
john		That's what she said.
abbot		These are ideas which threaten the very system we live under.  The creature is dead and the woman is gone.  Forget them. Both.  Go read.  Go fishing.  Go anywhere, but leave this alone.
john		But I --
abbot		Alone.  I'll get Philip to let Mattias into the Library, all right?  For your own good, just stay out of this.
abbot		I mean it.
john		 Yes, Father.
worker		Here you go, woman.  Something from your ship.  Something to keep you company --
ripley		You fucking idiots!  You're dead! You're all dead!
ripley		 Dead...
ripley		Christ.  Jesus Christ.  It's here.  Here. Shit.  Here.  I can't get rid of it...
ripley		Newt.  This isn't what I wanted...
ripley		 Don't stare at me!
john		 Picks his way through the mess.  Like a man possessed he fumbles through book after book.  The first golden rays of daylight filter through the huge stained glass windows.  John rapidly flips through the Medieval tome in front of him - past an illustration of Satan depicted as having a FACE on his ASS -- further still -- then stops. This is it.  We can't see what the illustration is, but we see his REACTION:  His eyes open wide as saucers.  SLAMS the book closed as if the image would strike blind.  He turns to Mattias as if to say something -- Decides not to wake the sleeping dog.  John wraps the book's chain around his hand and puts one foot up against the shelf.  Pulls -- SPANKT! The old chain gives way.  Face set, he loops the shoulder strap of his burlap medical bag over his shoulder.  Clutches the book to his chest, gently pets his sleeping dog and goes...
john		Now find John and have him brought to me immediately.
abbot		Start in the library.  And keep it quiet.
kyle		Hey!  Watch it!
kyle		What?  What is it?
john		I -- Abbot.  Must --
kyle		John - relax.  Take a deep breath - Christ, now I sound like you --
kyle		Is that it, John?  Is it the book --?
john		 Yes.  Devil.
whispering monks		He's got it...
whispering monk		He's infected...
kyle		Everything's gonna be fine.  Now, let's see the --
john		Don't humor me -- I'm --
kyle		Sure.  Everything's gonna be fine...
kyle		Wait -- JOHN!
ladders		 Extending down through huge open areas beneath the upper level. Past vast underground viaducts that held up by wooden rafters. Beyond that - a great underground sea that marks the center of the planet - below that, the cells. And Ripley.
john		 Can smell the dank air from the lower tunnels. He MUST go down -- The hard way. He climbs into the darkness...
abbot		Cold tonight --
abbot		And every day.  Never this bad.  Taken so much wood out of the structure the surface wind blows right through the colony.  Right under the floor --
abbot		Matthew?  Matthew?  Jesus, what's wrong?
other monks		 In their stalls as the toilets reject a torrent of gore! Blood and viscera spraying the walls -- converting the Abbey into an abattoir.  CUT TO: SPACE  Angle on the Orbitor Arceon:  An orb of wood hands peacefully against a tapestry of celestial seas.  RIPLEY V.O. Death...
ripley		Wherever I go.
ripley		Thanks, but no thanks, Anthony.
anthony		You waiting for meat?  They don't bring me meat because they know I'm an android. Really don't need it.  Bread's better for you anyway.  Harder to digest, so it makes you feel fuller than you are.
ripley		Not hungry.
anthony		Mmmm.  Just a little crunchy.
ripley		Waste of time.
anthony		You don't eat, you'll starve to death, girl.
ripley		That was the plan when they put me down here.  And why should you care?
anthony		Because I'm a synthetic person you don't think I can care?
ripley		Believe me, that's a discussion you don't want to have with me.
anthony		You told me you had a bad experience and a good one with androids --
ripley		That's one of each.  That means you could go either way.  I'm tired of talking about this.
anthony		You've still gotta eat.  You gotta fight the bastards --
ripley		I'm tired of fighting.  Maybe I'll be dead before he finds me.  Maybe he won't get the satisfaction.
anthony		He?  You make it sound like this Alien has a personal score to settle with you. The biology you describe:  Queen laying eggs, larvae, drone -- that's very insectoid.  Insects usually don't bear grudges.
ripley		And Androids usually aren't the prisoners of lunatics that believe they're ancient Greeks.
anthony		Medieval Monks.
ripley		Whatever.
anthony		And they've only chose to live the life style, they don't believe they're --  What's that?
john		 Ripley!
anthony		Hey -- you knocking -- cut it out -- You're going to wake everybody up.
anthony		Brother John?
john		Anthony?  Thought you dead fifteen years.
anthony		Made too good for that.  What're you doing?
john		I -- I'm looking -- the Abbot --
anthony		What?  You look like you've seen the devil.
ripley		I was right, wasn't I?  You've seen it, you've seen the Alien?
ripley		I can tell you have.  I was right. It came with me.  Go away.
ripley		Listen, priest, or whatever you are, I know what you want.  I can't help you. I couldn't help any of the others. Just stop what you're doing.  Go away. Do you understand?
ripley		You going to stay, Father?  But you're not going to talk.  Okay.  Then you can listen.  You should listen.  Your Abbot was right.  I am guilty.  But not of heresy.  Of murder.
ripley		The murder of the crew of the Nostromo. That was when I first met the Alien.
ripley		No, not the same one that's here now. Or maybe it is.  Maybe they're all the same one.  I couldn't save my crew then. I should have been able to.  But I couldn't. When I went the second time --
ripley		Then I met Newt.  Newt.  I fought -- stayed alive to keep Newt alive. Hoped maybe that would make up for...
ripley		Now he got her too.  What's the point?  Just go away.  Leave me in here.  If you let me out you'll want me to help you and it will start all over again. Let it end.
ripley		I can't help you.
john		Puh.  Please.
ripley		It never ends.
anthony		It must be able to take on some of the characteristics of the animal it grows in. Maybe they are from some sort of aggressive soldier race -- warring parties drop the eggs on opposing planets --
ripley		And the alien takes on the form of the creature that finds it, assuming that animal is the dominant life form on the planet.  So when it gestates in a man --
anthony		It's a biped.  In a sheep or cow, a quadroped.
ripley		Shit.  I just didn't think it could do that to animals.
john		Wait a minute - I thought you were the expert on this monster.
ripley		Is that the only reason you came to get me out?  Because I knew about this thing?
john		Yes.  I mean no.  I mean, that was part of it.  Look.  I never thought you were wrong. I was wrong not to say anything.  I was afraid to speak up.  It's hard to be a monk, you know?
ripley		Thank you.  If anything, you're honest.
john		We all are.  Took vows.
ripley		I don't know about the Abbot.
john		I'm sure he thinks what he did was right.
ripley		Is that speaking up for someone?
john		No.  Charity.
ripley		All right, let's forget about the past and get on to our survival.  No more prisoners behind us?
anthony		Not for years.
ripley		Okay -- If the Alien's had a few days to lay his eggs our only hope is to get off this - What is this?
john		Arceon.
anthony		Satellite.
ripley		Get to my ship and get off this Satellite.
john		We can't.
ripley		We can't what?
john		Leave Arceon.  Can't leave the library --
ripley		A Tape Library?
john		Books.
ripley		So?
john		The reason we are out here.  Like the Monks who guarded Monastery Libraries on remote islands off England during the First Plague --
ripley		There must be books on other colonies --
john		Some of these books survived the burning of the Libraries of Alexandria.  They contain knowledge that exists in no other record.  Their value is unestimable.
john		We're supposed to protect them.
ripley		 And what does an android have to do with all this?
john		He's a spy.
anthony		The Company planted me here.
ripley		The Company?  What does the Company have to do with this?
anthony		They built this prison.
ripley		Prison?
john		Colony.
anthony		Prison.  They are all political heretics.
ripley		You left that part out.
john		The order was more of a counter culture, a reaction to the Technology that was beginning to take over everyone's lives. It was a simple enough idea - Read, don't watch disk.  Walk, don't pump more carbons into the air.  The earliest members renounced technology.  Started to collect the remaining books.  Nobody would have noticed if it hadn't been for the Virus.
ripley		Your Abbot talked about that.  The New Plague.
anthony		A computer virus.  A bad program.  By this time the Corporate structure was transglobal, all the world's data storage systems were linked.  It spread through two countries before it was stopped.
john		After a scare like that, thousands flocked to our retreat.  People started clamoring for written information.  For our books. They abandoned the modern ways --
ripley		I think I can see how this comes out. They gave up their possessions.
anthony		This was a threat --
ripley		To the Company.
john		They sold the technology.  A movement to live simply was quickly twisted by Federal agents into a political movement against the Company-controlled World Government.  Too much was at stake.
ripley		Too much profit.
john		We were sentenced as political dissidents. This orbiter is our gulag.  All the men were packed up with all our books, and towed into space.  Ten thousand men.  The eldest died very quickly.
ripley		The Company had such a sense of irony. Sending you out on this wooden tub.
anthony		I was placed among them as a sensor. Keeps tabs on the movement.
ripley		So how'd they find out about you?
anthony		I told them.  After the supply ship's stopped coming I saw no point in keeping up the charade.  Since I was a sort of walking reminder of technology, they cast me down.
ripley		Join the club.  I figured this wasn't planned.  You don't have to be a genius to see it wouldn't be prudent to try to preserve man's written works for generations -- without women.
ripley		And I don't know about your New Plague, but I was just on Earth and everything's fine.
ripley		I was right about the Alien, wasn't I? Means I must be right about the Earth.
john		 Perhaps.
ripley		That's better than nothing.  Come on.
ripley		At any rate, let's forget about the Earth completely - whether you're right or I'm right what's important is getting the hell out of here.  From here my ship is...?
anthony		In Heaven.
ripley		Right.  And this is...
anthony		This orbiter was patterned after a medieval concept of the universe --  They call the top half "Heaven - "
john		The Abbey, the fields --
anthony		The bottom half is "Hell."  Where we are.
ripley		Aptly named.  What's in the middle?
john		The sea.
anthony		Really.
ripley		Work with me here.  How far is it back to the surface of the planet?
john		As a stone falls --- Five miles through the center.
ripley		And the elevator -- the thing they lowered me down in?
anthony		It's smart.  First he cuts their escape off, then works his way down through the monastery level by level until there isn't a thing left alive.  Interesting...
ripley		Well, you start appreciating him more than me and I'll find a way to shut you down, capisce, Andy?  How do we get up?
john		There are ladders.
ripley		Five miles with the Alien between us and there?  Good luck, boys.
john		You can't --
ripley		Can't what?  Not help you go to your deaths?  I've had my fill of that.
john		I need you.  I can't do it alone.
ripley		I've fought these creatures twice before.  It take a lot to kill these things.  Heavy artillery.
anthony		We don't have weapons here.
ripley		How about something we can make weapons from?  Do you have anything like that -- any modern things here?
john		We renounced technology.  It was those things that caused the Plague.
ripley		This is a man-made planet.  Something has to be recirculating your air, your water.
john		God?
ripley		Please.
john		I don't know.  I just took it for granted.
ripley		Most people do.  Without some sort of technology we haven't got a chance.
anthony		There is technology.
anthony		A room.  A Technology room.  Fresh air and water come out.
ripley		An atmosphere processing plant --
anthony		The heart and lungs of Arceon.
ripley		Where is it?
anthony		One level beneath the underground sea.
john		That's five levels up --
anthony		 On the other side of the orbiter.
john		A chance.
ripley		All right.  You've got me - so far. But here's the deal:  I don't know how many of your brethren are going to be alive when we get up there, but if we make it to my ship, you're all coming with me.  We'll take as many of your precious books as we can carry, but we're going.  I'm not going to fight this thing again to end up alone again.  Understand?
ripley		We're all dead anyway.  We might as well go fi --
ripley		Ugh - I'm all right.
ripley		Still thawing out.  I hate hyper sleep... Come on.
the monks		 Descend the ladders single file.  Fear is in all of their faces though most have only heard the stories.  They move cautiously into the wheat.  Spread out through the field in the jaggedly drawn skirmish line.
the abbot		 The Bald Tribunal Monk's dried blood splattered on his cassock, stands atop an empty wooden wagon.  From this vantage point he watches
abbot		 Stay together.  Together...
abbot		Run!  RUN!
abbot		No - NO.  The --
ripley		What?
john		Those things you said before --
john		I read about it in psychology books. Sometimes when people outlive someone they cared for, they transfer some of the guilt for that person's death to themselves.
ripley		I got a belly full of that from the Psychtechs when I was on Earth.  Yeah. "Survivor Guilt syndrome," or something like that.  But that's not what I was thinking about.  I was thinking about my "friend" up there.
ripley		He was on the pod.  He killed Newt but not me.  Why not me?  It's almost like he's playing with me.  Maybe they have some sort of race memory.  Maybe he knows what I did to his "mother." That's why he didn't just kill me. That would be too easy.  He has to torment me.
john		You make it sound human.
ripley		Hell, I don't know what it is.
john		I think I do.
ripley		 Down the corridor HEARS the scream, turns back -- sees Anthony fighting with himself, struggling against John's grasp -
anthony		 Balanced precariously on the top of the ladder in the real world as he fights against the demons in his android mind -- He JERKS -- Pulls his left ankle out of the grasp of the DEMON SHEEP -- OFF the ladder - forty foot drop waiting below him...
john		Jesus Christ.  Ripleeeee -!
anthony		 SEES a horrible BIRD-DEMON grasping his hand in its beak -- BITING through his wrist.  He waves his staff in the air -- He aims for its head: CRACK -! WHACKS John's hand with his staff --  John HOWLS in pain - LETS GO --  Anthony TEETERS BACK ON ONE FOOT, arms waving in the air --  Ripley's hands SHOOT OUT -- GRAB Anthony's cassock -- STOP his fall.  Anthony's eyes open wide at the sight of this new horror -- A terrible, wet, black cable-armed CREATURE that's latched itself onto his cassock -- Long, shiny head. Ripley has become the Alien.  WHACK! Anthony HITS the Creature with his staff -- HITS Ripley on the head. WHACK! Again.  In the face.  John tries to take hold of Anthony's staff arm -- WHACK! The cane WHIPS against the side of his head, knocking him back. Ripley sets her feet and pulls on Anthony's cassock -- Opens her mouth - GRUNTS --  ANTHONY sees the terrible Alien open it's maw to devour him.  WHACK! His staff connects with the bridge of Ripley's nose. She sees flashes of light -- loses her balance -- Pitches forward, starts to go over with Anthony --  JOHN GRABS THEM!  Wraps his arms around the struggling pair and like a sumo wrestler LIFTS and FALLS backwards - carrying the three of them into the corridor -- WHUMPH!  They land on the floor in a heap. Anthony continues to FLAIL ABOUT --  Ripley and John pin him to the floor between them. Finally, the vision leaves him. He loses consciousness.
ripley		Thanks.
john		You're welcome.
ripley		I'm all right.
john		Hold this against your nose.  It'll stop the flow.
john		I'm a doctor.
anthony		No - please.  Just let me sit. Awhile.
anthony		Damn it.
ripley		What was that?
anthony		The reason I'm down here.
john		Visions.
anthony		Dreams.
ripley		Androids can't dream...
anthony		That's probably what they thought when they built me.  But my brain is cyber- organic - patterned after the human brain - it functions the same way a human brain does.  It accumulates random images and sensations during waking hours, but unlike the human brain that sloughs them off during sleep --
ripley		Androids don't sleep.
anthony		Right.  Maybe they've fixed this on later models, but I don't.  Do you know what happens to the human brain when it is deprived of sleep?  It starts to run off the dreams while you're awake, as hallucinations.  Same thing with me. For twenty years I absorbed data on this planetoid.  A little after we lost contact with Earth the visions started.  They thought I was insane.  I had to explain that it was because I was an android. They liked that even less.
ripley		What did you see?
anthony		What I always see.  Images of Monsters. Demons.
john		They're portents.  They stand for an evil yet to come.
anthony		Just images I've absorbed from those old books and have no way to get rid of.
ripley		I saw the inside of your cell.
anthony		 My head is full of them.  I try to get them out any way I can.
john		You need sleep.
anthony		I know that.  I'll settle for rest.
ripley		Stay with him.
john		No.  We all need rest.  You especially.
john		Doctor's orders.
john		Besides, you see what happens when you get ahead of us.  We should stay together.
ripley		All right.  He's still above us, anyway.
john		What do you mean?
ripley		I've faced this evil twice before - I guess I've gotten sensitive to it --  You're really a Doctor?
john		See my bag?
ripley		What's that book?
john		Just a book.
ripley		I don't buy "just a book" from a guy who says we can't leave the planet without the library.
john		It's just... a medical book I might need.
ripley		You don't have any food in there, do you?
john		Only if you can eat bandages.
ripley		In a few hours that's going to sound good.  Going in and out of suspended animation - Christ I probably haven't eaten in a year.
anthony		 You should've eaten the bread.
john		You all right?
ripley		Aces.
john		You weren't hurt when I landed on you? Bruised a rib?
ripley		Are you sure you're a doctor?
john		Sort of.  My father passed on when we first came here.  The Abbey's Physician - Father Anselm - took me in.  He really raised me --  Taught me what he could before he passed away.  He was schooled on Earth.
ripley		Well, I'm just hungry.
john		You haven't eaten since I took you out of your tube.
ripley		You did that...
ripley		You burned yourself on the escape pod.
ripley		Thank you, I guess.
anthony		Enough rest.  There's beasties afoot.
john		Blood.  Mixed with sea water.
anthony		We're getting close to the center of the arc -- near the sea.
ripley		Blood.
john		Getting close...
ripley		The Abbot.
john		Father --
ripley		 What are you doing down here, father? You look like you've seen something that doesn't exist.
abbot		I was their spiritual leader.  I was not prepared to lead them in battle. Not against that thing.
john		No one could be.
ripley		I thought you said the evil was inside me -- that sealing me up was the answer to all your problems?
abbot		Destruction.  The destruction YOU brought to us!
ripley		I only tried to warn you.
abbot		What are you doing with this woman --?
john		We are going to the Technology Room. Trying to find some way to fight --
abbot		You don't join the devil to fight the devil.
anthony		She's helping us --
abbot		Look who defends the deceiver -- the one who isn't even human.  John, can't you see what is happening?  On ancient Earth, during the Black Death - many believed that God had abandoned them, so they appealed to the Devil.  Flocked to him hoping to save their bodies - losing their souls in the bargain.
ripley		Father, we're all on the run from the same monster so let's not resort to the fire and brimstone routine.  I've been enlightened about your "movement." Pretty funny to be tried for heresy on a planet of heretics.
john		Please.
abbot		All right.  I was trying to keep you quiet.
john		Sir --?
abbot		I do what I have to do to keep the Brotherhood together.  We all gave up believing in Earth a long time ago.  How do you think they would feel if told their exiled was in vain?  That the holocaust they were trying to avoid never occured?  Those men up there have grown to live with it.
ripley		And with you as their leader.
abbot		You threatened the status quo.
ripley		So you, protector of knowledge and truth, lied to them.
abbot		Only about you.  The rest I still believe.  If Earth still orbits its sun there is no way it could have survived being reduced to Barbarism.
ripley		You're as bad as the Company.
john		Ripley --
ripley		That's why you ran.  After all your talk death stared you in the face and you were afraid.
abbot		Not afraid of death.
ripley		The Alien.
anthony		The Organism.
abbot		The Devil.
abbot		What was that?
anthony		Man trap.
anthony		In case anyone tried to get in and tamper with the technology.
abbot		What do we do?
ripley		Don't move.  Don't breath.
abbot		We can't just stand here and wait.
ripley		Floor's too unstable to try to walk around them.
abbot		John - what are you doing?
ripley		He's thinking like a leader.  Everyone: Grab wood.  Spring the traps.  Clear a path.  Good work, Father John.
john		Brother.
ripley		Brother.  Let's go.
the four		 Slowly make their way down the corridor, one hand holding a candle high, the other poking a piece of wood into the trap in front of them... SNAP-SNAP...SNAP. SNAP. walking carefully around the yet unfired traps....
john		I just - are you allright?
ripley		Tied.  Without sleep, food -- I just feel my age.  Figuring hyperspace time, I'm almost a hundred.
john		Hello?
john		I think this is it.
abbot		Technology.
ripley		Yeah - a hundred years ago.  An antique.
abbot		 Go ahead.
ripley		Go ahead and what?
abbot		Open the door, woman.
ripley		I'll get to it, but listen to me -- you may dress like you're living in the middle ages but you can't treat me like your chambermaid, or whatever Monks had.
the alien		 Adapted itself to look like WOOD.  It's body changes -- transmutes -- Cable-like sinew snaking over grained limbs to approximate the more traditional bio- mechnoid alien appearance...!
anthony pov		 The weary android sees the Alien as a conglommoration of his many Medieval images of demons.  He hears the Alien's hollow, raspy breath.  It glides towards him...  Anthony steps back directly INTO A TRAP as his mind goes -- SNAP!! The STEEL JAWS spring shut on his left ankle. Milky blood-fluid starts to flow.  He finds himself in the same predicament as his vision -- Ankle pinned, the Alien's appendages circling him -- He screams.  AAAAAAAAAAAARGH --!
abbot		OPEN IT!!
the alien		 Steps towards Anthony -- Snap-snap-SNAP-AP-!! Traps snap closed on its tail, its legs --
john		 Picks up Anthony's staff. Begins to FLAIL away at the demon.
abbot		What's wrong?!
ripley		Shit.
john		 WHACKS the Alien with Anthony's staff -- Again.  Again.  The creature will not let Anthony go. The Android writhes in its grasp, his face now a blistered, pulpy mass, eyes gone.
ripley		 Finishes hot wiring.  The keyboard hums to life. Her fingers FLY across the keys --
the alien		 Tail wraps around John's waist -- Pulls him towards it -- LIFTS him - turns him upside down --  Lips PULL BACK --  John's hands GROPE at the floor --  Sharp metal teeth SPREAD --
john		 His hand closes around the end of one of the traps -- He brings it up -- SNAP!! It SLAMS closed on the Alien's extended Tongue -! The Beast bellows!! Whips its head from side to side -- Can't shake off the trap -- ACID BLOOD sprays out --! Lands as pools of FIRE on the wooden floor.
ripley		It's open!!
john		 PRIES Anthony's ankle out of his trap. Scoops up his staff, drags the moaning Android -- Back up the corridor --
abbot		Close it -- close it -- it's coming -
ripley		We wait.  John!!
the alien		 Acid Blood DISSOLVES the traps' steel jaws.  PULLS itself free. Head whips towards the escaping Monks -- if it had eyes they would narrow to slits in anger -- RUNS up the hall --
abbot		Hurry --
john		HURRY!!
the alien		 Yards away -- Limping.  Hissing. ANGRY.
the keyboard		 Acceptance tone "bings." The Door starts to slide down --  The Alien is feet away -- INCHES...  The door seats itself closed with a solid THUD.  Ripley, panting, rests eyes closed against the rough wooden door.  A beat. She turns to the room for the first time and finds --
windmills		 Real Man of LaMancha wood and cloth windmills.  Two story high arms slowly rotating.  Moving enormous volumes of air through the wind tunnel-like room.  As far as the eye can see. Turning, creaking. WHOOSH...WHOOSH... But no electronics.  No radio.  No weapons. This is the Technology Room.  Ripley collapses to the floor and loses consciousness.  DISSOLVE TO:  INT. SULACO ESCAPE SHIP #4   Yellow warning lights PULSE.  Those goddamned STROBES are flickering on and off.  Steam blasts out overhead pipes.  The blue-spark pilot light muzzles of a FLAME THROWER shyly pokes out from behind a console.  It's owner cautiously follows...
ripley		 She's breathing heavy. She's wearing a sweat soaked tank top. Her eyes flit from side to side.  Then up.  Then down. She pokes the weapon out ahead of her and moves into the pod. She silently crosses the distance to Newt's sleep tube:
ripley		No.  NO!  I beat you!  I beat you mother fucker!!
john		I thought we'd lost you.
ripley		What are you writing?
john		Last will and testament.  Just kidding.
ripley		Is he --?
john		Resting.  He'll be fine.
anthony		No I won't.  He's a terrible liar.
ripley		I'm sorry.
anthony		It's ironic.  I guess my visions were prescience after all.  How will I ever resolve that with my artifical con- science?
abbot		Do you see what you've delivered us into?
ripley		Yeah.  Lead me not into temptation to kick your -- ahh --
ripley		Oh shit.
ripley		Where is the Big Boy -?
abbot		On the other side of that door. Waiting for us to starve to death.
ripley		It's playing with us.  It could get in here any time it wants.
abbot		Why should he enter?  He knows that one of the people in this room is in league with him.
john		Sir.  We're all in the same coracle, so to speak.
abbot		Maybe more than one of us.
ripley		Let's talk about the facts, Mr. Abbot.
ripley		This is your technology?
abbot		Even this is forbidden to us.
ripley		Well then, the facts are that we're screwed.
ripley		An Eco system.  Nothing to recycle your atmosphere except the green plants.  Winds generated down here --  Windmills use the natural surface winds to turn wheels underground, create tides on the seas to recirculate your water...
anthony		More than that.  There are pumps beneath the floor - I can feel their vibration.
ripley		Probably pumping this air through charcoal filters.
ripley		It gets colder all the time here, right?
john		Yes...
ripley		Your wood burning fires throw soot into the atmosphere, building the cloud layer - cutting off the sun's rays - cooling the planet, forcing you to burn more wood.
anthony		The Greenhouse Effect.  It's how the Earth almost destroyed itself in the late 20th century.
ripley		Don't you see?  This is a planet set to self destruct.  Not in ten minutes or two hours but soon.  Your atmosphere here is finite.  If the plants die the fires will eat up all the oxygen - this planetoid will be dead - Everyone will die.
abbot		It's here.  I was just hoping I would be dead long before it came to this.
john		What?
abbot		We're supposed to die here.  That's the point.
ripley		Wait a minute -- you were exiled --?
abbot		The punishment for our crime was death.
anthony		This planet is the supreme triumph of planned obsolesence.  A certain amount of primitive materials with an atmosphere processing system as fragile as a real environment but not replenishable.
abbot		Poetic justice for the anti-technologists. The Company's best work.  You know, I used to be a corporate executive.  Middle range V.P.  Then my wife got hit by a speed craft. I chucked it all and joined the order. Be a monk -- see the world.  Being here, being chairman of the board...
ripley		No, now I understand why I landed here. To join you happy lunatics in your deaths.
john		Ripley, wait --
abbot		Where can she go?  She's trapped.  Trapped inside her own prison.  A prison in her mind.  Inside her mind.  Dancing. Sparklets of light - dance with the june bugs in the recesses of ourmindstheyare coming to danceintheshadowof...
abbot		RidingthewildwindsofchangeNoescapeNo escapeforthewickedEvilEvilthynameis woman.Woman.Womanheiscoming.Heiscoming foryouuuuuuuuu --*
ripley		BASTARD!!  It came out of his fucking head!
anthony		I didn't have to see that to know what that means.
ripley		He sent him to us.  That bastard outside. I can't get away from him.  He's fucking with my mind.  He's my punishment!
anthony		I'm confused.  Before you said it came out of the torso, not the head --
ripley		I don't feel like a discussion of Alien biology.
john		Ripley, don't --
ripley		I should just wait for the air to run out...
john		I believe - I know - that we can win -- there is an answer in our books.
ripley		Your books?  Your books are gone, Brother. Your world is gone.  Once that thing starts to lay its eggs, all your brothers - if they aren't already - are dead.
ripley		What?
anthony		There are several inconsistancies between this and the other Aliens you described.
ripley		Give it up.
anthony		I think this is important.  This may help us fight it.  The creature that I fought in the hall - when I first saw it, it had camoflaged itself to look like wood.
ripley		Wood?  When I saw it in my room it looked the way it did before -- black, mechanical -- unless that was a dream.
anthony		I don't think it was.  I think that this creature, if it is the efficient predator that you say it is, has the ability to adapt to its environment.
ripley		Then the reason they've always looked the same to me is that I only ever saw them in the same environment.
anthony		Or this may be an as yet unseen stage of development -- you saw a queen -- This could be like a King ant -- more highly advanced than the drone, bred for survival -?
john		How does this explain the thing that came out of the ewe's chest?  The Abbot's head?
ripley		Maybe it can deposit different types of eggs.  The chest burster is probably dormant until the host eats - The first one I ever saw came out of Kane after he started to eat --
ripley		No.
john		No what?
ripley		No, we're not beat yet, Father --
john		Brother --
ripley		Brother.  Not yet.  If he's taunting me, then maybe we can use that.  We can beat this bastard.  We can get to my ship. We can live.
anthony		Don't have second thoughts.  Blind and crippled I would only slow you down. Give him time to figure out what you're doing.  Just leave me my staff.
ripley		Okay.  Good luck.
anthony		Ripley, I know.  Good luck.
ripley		Sit tight.
ripley		He could be waiting on the other side of that door.  We might not get ten feet before he kills the three of us.
john		We had better go, then.
john		Must be day on the surface of the planet.
ripley		Where is the light coming from?
john		Mirrors.  Reflect the outside light down great shafts -- through lenses.  That's what they make in the glass factory. Lenses.  Look --
john		Opens to the surface.  Water flows in and out.  I don't know how.  There's one at either end.  I came down on the other side.
ripley		What do we do?
john		We cross.
anthony		Now the seer can only see what God wants him to.  Forty years on a planet of Monks and I've finally found religion.
anthony		John?  Ripley?
anthony		Well come then.  I haven't got forever.
ripley		Your hands okay?
john		They'll be fine.  You've been on a boat before.
ripley		I was a warrant officer on a ship -- but I did all my sailing in space.
ripley		How old were you when they towed this satellite out here?
john		Five.  The Abbot said they put us to sleep for the thirty years it took to get here.  We've had almost forty more.  Until now.
ripley		What happened to your mother?
john		Never had one.  I mean, never knew her. I mean, I did, once.  She left my father when he joined the movement.  If she hadn't I wouldn't be here.  They kept the other children with the women, on Earth.  That was too long ago now.  Like a dream.
ripley		Did you know that I was a mother?
john		The girl in the ship with -?
ripley		No.  On Earth.  I never mentioned my daughter.  My daughter.  I have - had I guess, by now - a daughter on Earth. Kathy.  She was nine when I signed on to the Nostromo.  Mommy will be home before you know it I said.  My shares would have set us up good.  Then I lost sixty years floating around in a rescue pod.  Thanks to the Alien.  I came home to face a bitter, 70 year old woman.  My daughter.  A little girl who's mother never came home.
john		Jesus Christ.
ripley		They said I should have been happy to be alive.  Funny, huh?  That's why I went back the second time.  Not so I could fight it -- You can't fight it -- So I could let it kill me.
john		You didn't choose to get lost in space.
ripley		Thanks for the try Father --
john		Brother.
ripley		Brother, but I'm not looking for absolution. I couldn't be a good mother to my daughter. I couldn't be a good mother to Newt.  But I can be a good mother to you.  I can make sure you survive.
ripley		Blood.
john		From the levels above.
john		He must have slaughtered all --
ripley		Don't think about it.  Don't think about what's up there.  Just row.
a shape		 Passes underneath the boat.  A swimming CREATURE.  The Alien. Thanks to the reflective qualities of water, it appears HUGE. Dwarfs their coracle.
ripley		Holy shit.
john		There's Andrew.  And Raphael.  Peter...
ripley		Stop.  How far?
john		We're right below the Abbey now.
the monastery		 Flickering fires lit the first few floor windows. Ripley takes a step towards it -- Reaches back and pulls John...
john		This is the glassworks.  They have tools here --  Kyle --
kyle		 Can't see my baby. Don't see my baby.  Bay be.
john		Kyle.  Brother Kyle.
kyle		Cards on the floor, fifty two pickup. Black king on red queen, put the ace up --
john		Kyle goddammit!
ripley		John - it's too late --
kyle		Ace up.  Put the ace up.  Redaceupup. Blackaceup.Up.Pup-pup-pup-chaka- boomloommawhacka -- Booomalooma looma --
john		Keep singing, my friend.
john		I killed him.  I'm a doctor and I killed him.
ripley		You had to.  You're supposed to end suffering.
ripley		Let's get the hell out of here.
ripley		He's made a mess.
john		No.  He hasn't been up here yet.  I did this.
john		Here - philosophy - we'll start here --
john		Mattias!
ripley		I'm glad.  Really.  But we've probably only got a few minutes before this entire place goes up in flames.  Just grab whatever books you want and --
the alien		 Standing in the open doorway. It's in bad shape from the man traps. Lost a foot.  Tongue hanging out, useless. Parts of it look like wood.  Parts of it look like wheat.  It carries Anthony's waterlogged, limp body -- POPS off his head like a grape from the bunch. Tosses the corpse at Ripley's feet.  I could swear it's trying to smile.
john		Easy, boy...
ripley		Is there another way out?
john		Not that will do us any good.
john		We hurt it.
ripley		You wanna give it a bandage?  Look -- Where is my ship from here?
john		On the roof directly above this room.
ripley		Here's the plan --
john		But the books --
ripley		Forget the books!
ripley		Shit.
mattias		 Snaps and barks at the Alien -- Leaping about to dodge its claws. Draws its attention --
john		No!  THE BOOKS!!
ripley		Don't --!
john		Are you all right?
ripley		 Tries to pull herself up to the floor above -- The next level is a raging fire.  She can only hang and DROP.  She DOES -! Falls the two stories. Bends her knees and ROLLS on impact.
john		Ripley -!
ripley		Aargh.  I'm fine.  Let's get the fuck out of --
john		Ripley - the lever!!
john		Saw that happen to a bottle once.
ripley		 Beat... Beat him - ugh --
john		We've got to get to the Library --
ripley		Don't worry.  Ship.  Just --
ripley		Don't be stupid --
john		Some of them!  I've got to save some of them!  Mattias!!
ripley		They're lost.  You did your best.  If you get out, it wasn't in vain. We've got to live!!
john		The Library --
ripley		I told you -- the Earth is still there --
ripley		Not working.
john		What does that mean?
ripley		It means I don't know how long I was in hyper sleep.
john		It means the Abbot could've been right --
ripley		It means my clock isn't working.  We have to get out of here.  Even if he was right this ship's onboard computer is filled with man's knowledge.
john		Not everything.  Some things will be lost forever.
ripley		Then man starts over.  He's done it before.
ripley		Okay.  The seals weren't broken so we're probably clear.  But those dead monks out there are going to start hatching soon.  Let's get ready to take off.
john		What can I do?
ripley		Here, I need a compressor tank from in that compartment.
john		Hey!  What?!
john		Hey - I'm locked in.
ripley		I know.  I locked you in.
john		What?
ripley		I'm not going with you.  I've got one inside me.
john		What?!  You can't --
ripley		I figured it out.  That's why it didn't kill me.  He must have impregnated me when I was in the stasis tube.  It hasn't come out yet because I haven't eaten, It's still dormant.  So either I eat and it kills me or I don't eat and I starve to death.  Either way I die.
ripley		What, an exorcism?  No good.
john		You can't do this.  Ripley - listen to me - you're confusing feeling of guilt for actual sin - I can help you --
ripley		 I've set a time lock.  When the pod escapes the Colony's gravitational pull this compartment will open.  Then all you have to do is get into the Stasis tube with Mattias and press the blue button.  With any luck a freighter or something will pick you up.  Good luck.
john		NO!  No, Goddammit - you can't do this. You can't let it win.
ripley		It always wins.  We killed it, but it's still inside me -- You're my last chance. If I can keep you alive it'll make up for all those I've lost.
john		Listen to me!  You have to let me try! Ripley:  You're MY only chance!
john		I told you Father Anselm raised me. He raised me and when he was dying I couldn't do anything to save him.  I didn't know enough.  It was my fault he died.  If you don't let me try to save you my body will live but my soul will be dead.
john		Please.
ripley		What is this stuff?
john		 Something that will make you well. Something that will make you sick.
ripley		I don't --
john		Shut up and drink.
ripley		Why?
john		Choking.  It was the only way.  He drops the open book in front of her: She sees the etching.
john		They knew.
ripley		But you --
ripley		You'll die --
john		You... are from the real world.
john		Stay -- both of you.
ripley		No - wait!  John!
brother john		 Dawn's rays are peeking through the battered ceiling as he walks slowly across the smoking roof. Into the inferno that is the burning Abbey.  Ripley watches as John and the alien horror inside him are INCINERATED.  The heat of the flames grows. She must pull back -- Reaches up for the door handle. It closes with a THUD.  She rolls onto her back. She weeps.  For the first time in years. She's been absolved.  CREeeek -!! The escape pod SHIFTS. Ripley's eyes SNAP open --  The Roof beneath the Pod is beginning to GIVE WAY.  Ripley rolls onto her stomach and drags herself to the pilot's chair.  Pulls herself into the seat. Straps herself in --
john's parchment		 Ripley picks it up and unrolls it. She hears John's voice:  JOHN V.O. I, Brother John Goldman of the orbiter Arceon, Minorite abbey and gaol, know the Abbot was wrong.  There is a great evil here.  I have seen it.  I put pen to paper now lest this plague - this creature stills my hand.  I have gone down below - both to try to warn the others and get the woman - Ripley - get from her some clue as to how to battle this evil, or at least to make my peace for not defending her.  She believes there is still and Earth and I hope she is right. I hope she will be able to find out. I hope she can find some rest for the devils that torment her.  Ripley looks at the elapsed time counter on the command console.  Pulls a pen from it's holder.  She adds:  RIPLEY V.O. Whether the Earth exists or not, whether we end up in Heaven, or Hell, or the cold vacuum of space, she has.  She sets her course. Gets back into her tube. Closes the lid.
deep space		 The escape pod moves through the jet-black void...
arceon		 Dwindles into the darkness behind her, a smouldering, slowly dying ember...  THE SCREEN GOES BLACK
****Dialogues from script :alien_nation.txt****

crais		That was the scene in California's Mojave Desert three years ago today -- the historic first view of the Newcomer ship upon its dramatic arrival.  As with the assassination of John Kennedy, who among us does not remember exactly where he was that October nineteenth morning, when news first broke: that people have landed... from another star.
fedorchuk		I remember where I was -- pissing off my balcony at the neighbor's dog!
alterez		 Get to the goddamn ball scores!
crais		These "Newcomers," we soon learned, were a genetically-engineered race, adapted for hard labor in almost any environmental condition.  In effect, their ship was a slave ship... washed ashore on Earth with no way to get back to where they came from...
fresno housewife		When the Newcomers were first let out of the ship, they were quarantined in a camp not ten miles from the town here.  You can imagine how the people around here felt about that.  But once they were releases from the camp and we got a chance to know them, we saw what nice, quiet people they really are...
fedorchuk		Hey, Henry, how you doin' tonight? Workin' hard?
fedorchuk		You got your green card, buddy?  You didn't leave home without it?
sykes		Jeez... they call that gang-bang a game...?
sykes		Take a hike.
sykes		Why's it have to be sour milk that these guys get wasted on?  What the hell's wrong with Jack Daniels, or Thunderbird for chrissakes?  Slagtown.  Shit...
sykes		Hope their plumbing's the same.
tuggle		It is. 
sykes		How can I go?
tuggle		Put on your wash-and-wear suit and your clip-on tie, have your landlady tie your shoes for you, and show up at the church.  Simple.  Me and Carol are going.
sykes		What?
tuggle		Hey, look -- we've known Kristin since... since she was conceived in that cabin up in Big Bear. Remember?  You and Edie banged the wall so hard, me and Carol were picking plaster out of our hair for a week...
sykes		Goddammit, Tug -- I want to see Kristin get married, okay?  But--
tuggle		But you're bummed because your ex and her new husband are paying for the whole thing.
sykes		Shit, if Kristin had to get married where I could afford it, we'd be holding the reception at Buddy's Burgers.
sykes		Uh-oh... Check it out.
sykes		Does that look at all suspicious to you?
tuggle		Whatever gave you that idea?
tuggle		This is one-Henry-seven, we've got a possible two-eleven in progress at Porter's Mini-Mart, corner of Court and Alvarado.  Requesting backup.
sykes		Let's do it, partner.
sykes		You got your vest?
tuggle		Of course.  Right in the trunk of the car.
sykes		Yeah, that's comforting.  Mine, too.
tuggle		Watch the driver.  I'm going for a better angle on the door.
sykes		I got him.  Don't get pinned.
sykes		 Aw, shit.
sykes		Get outta there!
tuggle		I can't!  Do you mind!
sykes		I'll cover you!  Get outta there!!
old man		Can I get out now?
tuggle		Move it!
sykes		Aw shit, Tug, Jesus!  Goddamn it!
human cop		Whoa, whoa... hold it.  Take it easy.  You okay?
jetson		I am all right.
human cop		I better call in.
jetson		Your hand will require attention.
sykes		Get the hell away from me!  I don't need your goddamn help.
natuzzi		Looks like a standard combat pump- action.
minkler		It is.
natuzzi		So what punched holes clear through that car out there?
minkler		BRI Sabot slugs.  These puppies are nasty.  Two plastic sabots fall away in flight leaving a fifty-caliber slug going two thousand feet per second.  Tug might as well've been hiding behind a rosebush.
natuzzi		Pretty heavy artillery for knocking over a liquor store.
minkler		Yeah?  So why the extra fire power?
jetson		Perhaps because even the larger caliber handguns aren't always effective against my people.
sykes		 You saying there's some connection to this other homicide?
female cop		Hey, give me a hand with this woman, will ya Jetson?  We've got to get her to Division for her statement and she won't budge.
jetson		 Excuse me.
sykes		So, you think there's a connection, or what?  Hey!
kristin's voice		 Danny thought Tug was the greatest -- but, then, who doesn't?  Anyway, love you, talk to you soon.  'Bye.
sykes		So what've you got on Tuggle's killers?
fedorchuk		Jesus, Sykes -- it's been less than ten hours.  Me and Alterez are on it, okay?
sykes		You don't have squat.
fedorchuk		You ever try to make a case in Slagtown?  The list of Newcomer informants is about as long as the list of Mexican war heroes...
alterez		Up yours.
fedorchuk		... Nobody talks to nobody down there.  Half of them don't speak English and the other half only when it suits them.  It's gonna take some time.
sykes		Yeah, I know it's gonna take time. Like until the Ice Capades opens in Hell, with you two on it.
warner		Nobody wanders off!  I got an announcement.  Get your asses back in here.
warner		I'll make this short.  This is a directive from Chief Evaner, who is acting on orders from the Mayor, who is under mandate from the Federal Bureau of Newcomer Relations.  As of nine o'clock this morning, one Newcomer uniform officer has been promoted to the rank of Detective, third grade.
warner		And we've got him, gentleman.  Volunteers for duty with the new detective should see me in my office... otherwise I will choose a volunteer myself.  That is all.
fedorchuk		Unbelievable bullshit.
alterez		How long has this Slag been on the force?  A year, max -- right?
detective		I don't know about the rest of you, but I sure as hell ain't gonna sit still for this.  I'm calling the union, pronto.
fedorchuk		Where the hell is he going?
warner		Yeah, Sykes?
sykes		Captain.  I'd like to volunteer for duty with the new detective.
warner		... All right.  Detective Sergeant Sykes, this is Detective... Jetson.
jetson		We have met.
goldrup		Victor Goldrup, Mayor's office. Congratulations, gentlemen.
warner		 You are to have nothing to do with the investigation into Bill Tuggle's death.  You know that.  Leave that for Fedorchuk.
sykes		 Departmental policy.
warner		 You?
jetson		Yes, sir.
warner		Good.
sykes		There's another case I'd like to take.  A homicide -- a Newcomer named Hubley.
warner		Granger and Pitts are already on it.
sykes		Granger and Pitts have one hell of a caseload... and I would have thought with Jetson here being the first Newcomer plainclothes, and Hubley's body being found over in the Newcomer community...
warner		Don't tell me what to think.
goldrup		He's got a point.  That's the sort of thing we should be doing with this early advancement program...
sykes		... and we work my hours.  I'll do the driving, you do the paperwork. You gotta learn it so you might as well do it all.
jetson		 Sergeant... I'd like to thank you for what you're doing.
sykes		What's that?  Look, Jetson.  Get this straight in your head.  We're not pals, we're not married, and we ain't gonna take long moonlight walks together... We're just partners.  And don't call me Sergeant.  Call me Sykes... or Matt if you have to.
jetson		I am George.
sykes		Wait a minute.  George?  George Jetson?
sykes		 Man, somebody really hung one on you!  I've heard some good ones for you guys... Humphrey Bogart, Harley Davidson.  I guess the people at immigration got a little punchy after a while, coming up with names for a quarter of a million of you. You weren't at the back of the line, were you, George?
jetson		My true name is Ss'tangya T'ssorentsa'.
sykes		Gesundheit.  You don't mind if I stick to George, do you?
sykes		Anyway, what's it matter to you if we think it's funny, right?  Whatta you care?
jetson		That is exactly so.  It is like your name... Sykes.  I'm sure it doesn't bother you at all that it sounds like "ss'ai k'ss", two words in my language which mean "excrement" and "cranium".
jetson		"Shit... head".
sykes		Let's talk Hubley.
jetson		 His body was discovered three days ago, in an alley off of Central Avenue, near downtown.
sykes		With two BRI Sabot slugs in the chest.
jetson		 Through the chest.  Rupturing both the primary and secondary hearts.
sykes		 Nice signal, dickwad!
jetson		He was employed at the Northwest Petroleum Refinery in Torrance.  He was manager of the Methane Facility. He was also a principle partner in a real estate venture to develop low- cost housing for Newcomers.
sykes		Terrific.  A real pillar of the community.  Was Hubley missing anything when they found him?  Was he ripped off?
jetson		 There was no wallet... but he was still wearing a watch and two rings.
sykes		The guys at the mini-mart last night made a half-assed stab at the money in the till -- but I don't think that's what they were there for.  I think we got us a couple'a executions on our hands, George...
jetson		The murder at the mini-mart is not our case.  The Captain said--
sykes		Look, you want to fit in here, right?  You want to learn how to get along?
jetson		Yes.
sykes		Well, there's a thing about partners, about being somebody's partner.  You do for each other. And other people's rules don't mean shit.  It's the rules set up between the two of you, that's all that counts.  Understand?  Okay.  Well, my friend and partner was shot last night and I'm after the shitbag that did it.  As my partner, I'm asking you to respect me and help me find him.
jetson		And as my partner, I ask you to respect me and my desire not to break with procedure.
jetson		What is wrong?
sykes		 Nothing's wrong.  I just want to get something straight.  You agree that there's a good chance these two shootings are somehow related, right?
jetson		Well... yes, quite possibly.
sykes		Possibly.  Good.  Well, would you be willing to accept the theory, George, that... possibly... by examining the evidence from one case we might shed some small ray of light on the other?  Does that sound unreasonable to you?
jetson		Yes... no, it is not unreasonable. Although I--
sykes		Great.  Well, I'm sure glad that's settled, aren't you?
sykes		I think we're really starting to click now, George -- hmmm?
winter		You know I've been over all this with Fedorchuk and Alterez this morning...
sykes		Come on.  You got nothin' better to do, cushy county job like yours.
winter		Yeah, right.  Don't push your luck. Anyway, according to the sheet, the guy you nailed outside by the car--
sykes		The human?
winter		Yeah... he was one Martin Helder. White male, twenty-seven.  Let's see... wrap sheet shows one armed robbery conviction, a couple for sale of a controlled substance. Oh yeah, and he was wired on coke when you stopped his clock.
jetson		Have you identified this one?
winter		So far he's a John Doe.  Or a Sam Slag, if you like.
winter		No I.D. on him and -- well, you know, no fingerprints -- so it could be tough.  Your buddies this morning went through the mug book but couldn't make a facial match.
sykes		Fedorchuk couldn't find his ass with his hands in his back pockets.
winter		 You took this gut out, too, didn't you?
sykes		Yeah.
winter		Lucky for you, you got him in both of his... well, what we loosely refer to as... hearts.
sykes		Lucky nothing.  I had to empty my damn gun into him.
winter		That's the way these people are. You don't hit both pumps you just piss them off.
winter		Oh, here's an extra headshot if you need one.  We're just about to start cutting in.  You're welcome to stick around if you want.  It's really fascinating stuff.
sykes		Yeah, I'll bet.
sykes		What's this?  What's going on?
jetson		Nothing.
sykes		 Nothing?
jetson		 Shouldn't we examine their personal effects?
jetson		What is this?
sykes		 You need this for anything?
ortiz		Nope, got my own.  Anything you guys don't use gets stuffed away in storage.
sykes		Get the picture?
jetson		 And that fits?
sykes		Well... Yeah, it's rubber.  It stretches.
jetson		And still it fits?
sykes		What is this stuff?
jetson		It is a resin.
jetson		 Newcomers working near methane gasses at oil refineries must paint it on their boots to protect against sparks.
sykes		How the hell do you know that?
jetson		A large number of my people were hired by refineries because the methane fumes are not harmful to us. My spouse's brother is one.
sykes		So the Slag they're cutting into upstairs worked at a refinery just like Hubley worked at a refinery.  Okay, next step -- I gotta go talk to the wife of the Slag store owner blown away last night.
jetson		I believe I should interview the widow alone.
sykes		Why the hell--?!  Great, fine.  You talk to the wife.
sykes		Well, one of the men didn't like him so much...
sykes		We think he could'a been involved, yeah.  You know him?
sykes		 Who else can I ask around here?
sykes		I think you're gonna find he's taken the rest of his life off.
sykes		That where Anderson worked?
sykes		Jesus.  Welcome back Ozzie and Harriet...
jetson		Mrs. Porter is not taking her husband's death well.
sykes		 Did you learn anything?
jetson		A week ago two men came to see her husband.  After they left, he was very frightened.  She identified one of the men from a photo I showed her.  It was Hubley.
sykes		Aw-right.  What about the other guy?
jetson		She didn't know him.  But she said her son might.
sykes		Did you talk to him?
jetson		He has not been home since that day. But she told me where to find him.
mayor		... Our guest speaker tonight has done so much in his community and for his community in such a short period of time.  And I must say, as the founder of the first Newcomer owned and operated corporation in Southern California, he certainly has come quite far in the last few years.  Granted, not as far as he came in the years before reaching Los Angeles.
mayor		 As Mayor of this city, it gives me great pleasure to introduce someone who has so readily made our city his home... and all of us who live here, his friends.  Ladies and gentlemen, William Harcourt.
harcourt		Thank you all for that very warm reception.  I'm particularly grateful because I actually had the gall to write that in my notes: "Thank you all for that very warm reception".  Imagine how embarrassed I would've been if it hadn't have been such a warm reception.
sykes		William Harcourt?
harcourt		Yes...
sykes		I'm Sergeant Sykes, and this is Detective Jetson, Los Angeles Police Department.
harcourt		 Sergeant... Detective.  I wasn't aware there were any Newcomers at the rank of Detective yet.
jetson		I am the first.
harcourt		Congratulations.  This is my administrative assistant, Rudyard Kipling.
sykes		 Listen, we just need a minute of your time...
jetson		We'd like to ask you about a business associate of your, Warren Hubley.
harcourt		Yes, I heard about poor Warren. Tragic.
sykes		You were partners with him on some Slag -- uh, Newcomer real estate thing.
harcourt		That's right.  He and I, along with seven or eight others.  Listen, gentlemen, I will be happy to assist you in any way I can -- unfortunately, at the moment, I'm overdue at another function.
harcourt		Mr. Mayor...
mayor		William, I was wondering if you wouldn't rather ride with Luisa and me.  Two limousines trying to make it across town in all this traffic, we're bound to be later than we already are.
harcourt		Excellent idea.  Ray, I wonder if you know two of your police officers... Detective Jetson and Sykes.
mayor		 We really should be going.
harcourt		 Congratulations again on your promotion, Detective.  Remember... you're out there setting an example in our community.  I'll be keeping an eye on you.
kipling		That cop, the human, he was the one who killed Anderson and the driver.
harcourt		This is becoming a serious breach of security.
kipling		He didn't recognize me.
harcourt		It is his new partner that I'm worried about.
sykes		Go on ahead.  I'll be right in.  What'd you dig up for me?
maffet		You said you wanted the biggest thing I could find... Well, this is it.
sykes		What is it?
maffet		Casull .454 Magnum.  You're talking twice the impact energy of .44 Magnum hot loads.
sykes		 Only holds five.
maffet		Yeah, the shells are too big for six in an cylinder.  Hell, Matt, you don't need but one.
sykes		 No... two.
sykes		Well, let's see what you got, Cochise.  Gimme six, rapid fire.
sykes		 How long you been shooting?  That's pitiful.  Whattya gonna do if somebody draws down on you, wave your scores on the written exam at 'em?
jetson		Why did you do it?
sykes		Why'd I do what?
jetson		Agree to work with me?  You don't like me... you don't like any of us. You have nothing but contempt for us.  And yet you become an outcast from your club of detectives by making me your partner...
sykes		My partner is dead!  Because one of you bastards killed him -- then disappeared into a rathole down in Slagtown, where he's home and dry, 'cause nobody sees nothing, nobody says nothing...
sykes		 But he didn't figure on you, George. You're going to get me through that wall of silence.  You're going to make them talk to me.  You're going to help me find that Slag son-of-a- bitch.  Comprendo?  And if Fedorchuk and the boys in the bullpen don't like it, screw them... and if the Captain doesn't like it, screw him... and if all the Slags down in Slagtown don't like it... well screw them too!
sykes		 Okay, just stay back and do what I do.  Watch and learn, watch and learn...
sykes		I can't see dick in here.
sykes		 Which one'a you Slags is Porter?
voice		 Who wants to know?
sykes		 Who said that?
jetson		 At the end of the bar.
sykes		My name is Sykes.  I'm--
alien voice		Ss'ai k'ss?
offender		 Careful, ss'loka', you might hurt yourself.
sykes		You Porter?
jetson		No, Matthew.  I believe this is the one you want.
sykes		Your name wouldn't happen to be Porter, would it?
jetson		Uh, Matthew...
sykes		 Back off, George.
jetson		But I-- .
sykes		I'll handle it.
sykes		 Is your name Porter?
porter		Ss'kya'ta'.
sykes		 What's that?
jetson		Screw you.
sykes		 Screw me?  That can't be right.
porter		Ss'kya ta' ss'loka'.  Ss'trokya' ss'lato na'!
jetson		 You don't want to know.
sykes		Tell me.
jetson		Your mother mates out of season.
sykes		 That's very colorful.  But see -- now I've got a problem.  I don't seem to be getting much cooperation from you, Porter.  So I guess we're gonna have to take this little session down to my office, ya know?
jetson		Matthew, you don't have to-- .
sykes		Stay back!  I'm okay.
porter		Don't they teach you anything about us in cop school, little ss'loka'?
jetson		Enough.
porter		 It fits you.
sykes		You know that guy?
jetson		 From quarantine, when my people first arrived here.  He and I were housed together.
sykes		How could a straight-arrow like you ever pick a roommate like him?
jetson		In the camps, we were lodged four to a room.  The selection process was entirely random.  We did not get to stay with our friends... or families...
jetson		You don't know what your father and these two men were arguing about?
porter		I told you -- I was in the back of the store.  I just heard voices, muffled like.
sykes		One of the two men was Hubley, right?  What about the other one? Did you know him?
porter		Yeah... I seen him around.  High- roller dude named Strader.  Joshua Strader.  Runs a club on the west side.  Encounters.
sykes		Yeah, I heard of it.
porter		That's all I know.  You want anything more, you ask somebody else.
jetson		I am sorry about your father.
jetson		If I may make a suggestion... We have different weak spots than you do.  Next time, a blow to the nerve plexus under the arm, here, will produce the effect I think you were looking for.
sykes		Yeah, sure.  I knew that...
kid		 Six forty-two.
sykes		I don't think I could ever learn to read that shit.  How long did it take you to learn English?
jetson		Three months.  We learn quickly.  We adapt.  It is our strength... what we were bred for, to adapt to hostile environments.
jetson		 Thank you.
sykes		My neighbor's kid has a Newcomer girl in his class.  She's six years old and in seventh grade already...
sykes		Oh, God.  I think I got yours here...
sykes		 Which one is that?  Raw what?
jetson		 This is mole.  It's good.
sykes		I'll bet.  Would it really put you out if they tossed that on the grill for a minute or two?
jetson		Our bodies do not assimilate the nutrients if the food has been cooked.
sykes		Oh, that's real attractive.  You got fur in your teeth, George.  Come on, man, we're gonna be talking to people... jeez.
sykes		So what was that other word for Human... Slow ka?
jetson		Ss'loka'.  It means literally "small but intelligent creature".  It loses much in the translation.
sykes		And what was that one about my mother?  That was a good one.
jetson		Ss'trokya ss'lato 'na'.
sykes		Yeah, that's it.  Say it slow.
jetson		You are Cassandra?
cassandra		That's right.
jetson		We are with the Police Department. This is Sergeant Sykes, and I am--
cassandra		 Ss'ai k'ss?  Perfect.
sykes		We're looking for your boss -- Strader.
cassandra		He's not here.  Why ask me?
jetson		The young woman at the front said you might know where he is.
cassandra		She did, did she?  Well, she was wrong.  Excuse me, I have to change.
sykes		No problem.
sykes		Look, we're not here doing an interview for the school paper. This is a homicide investigation... and if you don't stop jerkin' us around, I'm ready to start playin' hardball.
cassandra		 Oooh.  Hardball.  That sounds interesting.  Are you going to strike me?  You could tie me up and then do whatever you want with me... I've got my own ropes.
sykes		 Does that cost extra or you throw them in?
cassandra		You've got me all wrong.  I don't charge money for something that I myself find pleasurable...
jetson		I am going out to the car.  I will meet you there.
cassandra		Look, I don't know where Mr. Strader might be.  He comes and he goes.
sykes		 The girl out front mentioned Strader's assistant, somebody named Watson.  Maybe he knows.
cassandra		 Todd?  Todd doesn't know either.
cassandra		 I know... Why don't you hang around for a while, let me entertain you? It's Matt, right?  Now tell me the truth, have you ever... made it... with one of us?
sykes		Not unless I got real drunk and nobody told me about it later.
cassandra		A virgin.  I find that very arousing...
sykes		There's lots of things I haven't done, but his ain't high on the list.  Don't take it personally.
cassandra		I think you're just a little scared now, about what you might find once the lights go out.  A little scared... and a lot curious.  Maybe more than you want to admit.  But doesn't that turn you on, that curiosity and fear, swirling together?  Think of it as broadening your horizons.
sykes		I like my horizons narrow.
cassandra		 Your voice is saying no, but your body is saying yes.
sykes		My voice, body, and everything else is saying I'll be back in two hours for Strader, and he better damn well be here.
sykes		Freeze!  Now!
sykes		 Fire escape!  End of the hall!
sykes		 How'd you like that, huh?  Whammo! Both barrels.  Dropped him like a bag of cement.
sykes		Who is he?
jetson		Todd Watson.  The assistant manager.
watson		I don't believe this.  Look at my suit.  Look at what you made me do to my car.
sykes		 Your girlfriend put up a better fight than you did, pal.
jetson		We are looking for your employer, Joshua Strader.
watson		He's out of town.
jetson		Why did you run?
watson		Because you two were chasing me.
sykes		We were chasing you because you ran, you dumb son-of-a-bitch.
jetson		When will Strader return?
watson		Who knows.  He's the boss -- he doesn't have to check in with me.
sykes		 Watson... this is my partner here's first coupla days, and he wants to make a good impression.  Me, though, the way I feel -- this could be my last day, know what I mean?  And I'm ready to rain on you like a cow pissin' on a flat rock.
watson		Look -- Mr. Strader hasn't been around for a coupla days.  He didn't tell me where he was going or when he'd be back.  I swear it.
sykes		 What do you think?
jetson		I believe he is probably lying.
sykes		Through his ass.  Next time you see him, tell him to call me... unless you want us to keep coming back on you like a bad case of herpes.
sykes		George, you can handle the women from now on, you mind?
quint		 Okay, scrape him up.
harcourt		Any progress?
quint		My arm's gettin' tired and so far, zip.
kipling		He is ss'verdlatya ss'alo to Strader.
quint		What's that mean?
kipling		Duty-bonded.  His allegiance to Strader is above pain or life.
quint		You tellin' me this guy would die before he'd screw his boss and work for us?  Nobody's that dumb.
kipling		It is something you couldn't comprehend, Quint.
harcourt		I understand you have been resisting my offer Mr. Watson.  Your sense of duty to Mr. Strader is noble, but -- no longer an issue, I'm afraid...
harcourt		 I will not make this offer again.  I want you to work for me, to manage the nightclub as Strader's successor. If you do, you will know a wealth and comfort our people never dared imagine...
watson		Sss'k'a ta'!
harcourt		It is such a pity to die for an outmoded value.  Mr. Quint, I believe it's time for our friend's swimming lesson.
harcourt		 It's important to learn new skills. Essential to your growth as a person.
quint		You never seen this before, have you, Billy?  oh, man, you ain't gonna believe it... seawater is like battery acid to these guys... I don't know what it is, some kinds chemical reaction.  Whatta you think it is, Watson?  Whoa, hold him.  What I love about the surf is you can never tell how far up it's going to come until it... whoops, got a little wet there.
quint		Last call, sucker.  One... two... THREE!
kipling		When we picked him up, he was talking to those two cops -- the two who came to question you about Hubley.
harcourt		This is getting out of hand.  I want you to deal with it.  Immediately.
harcourt		 We must learn to embrace the things we fear... and from that grow strong.
jetson		 Would you mind?
sykes		 So, she keeps you on a pretty short leash, does she?
jetson		My wife?  She worries about me.
sykes		Yeah... I know the routine.
jetson		You are married?
sykes		Was.  Divorced.
jetson		We mate for life.  Divorce... is a strange concept to us.
sykes		It's like having an eleventh finger removed.  It hurts like hell, but you never really needed the damn thing in the first place.
jetson		Your home is quite disordered.  I thought perhaps you had been burglarized when I walked in.
sykes		 I appreciate your honesty, George.
sykes		Ignore the bitch on the left, that's Edie.  I call her Edi Amin... This is Kristin, my daughter.  It's kinda an old picture... she's twenty now. Getting married, in fact... on Sunday.
jetson		Human children can be very beautiful.  Getting married?  Congratulations. You will be taking Sunday off, then...
sykes		 She doesn't need her burn-out of a father there...
jetson		 And this is Richard.  My son.  He's four years old.  We named him after the former President, Richard Nixon.
sykes		You open to a piece of advice?  Tell people you named him after Richard Burton, the actor.  Just take my word for it.
sykes		... and so, and so the doctor says, "If this is the thermometer, then where'd I leave the pen?"  You're not... you don't think that's funny?  George, work with me, I always get a laugh with that one. Look, if the doctor's got the thermometer in his hand, then where's his pen gotta be?
jetson		 In the other man's rectum.
sykes		 Nada, huh?
sykes		 Your health...
jetson		Ta ss'trakyona'...
jetson		There is so much our two peoples don't understand about each other.
sykes		No shit, Holmes.  You're only from another goddamn planet, for chrissakes.
jetson		You humans are very curious to us. You invite us to live among you, in an atmosphere of equality we've never known before.  You lay before us a beautiful green world, full of freedoms and opportunities... You give us ownership of our lives for the first time... and you ask no more of us than you do of yourselves: to live by the rules... rules that aren't made to keep one people subordinate to another, but rules that exist to preserve equality.  You aspire to very high ideals here.
jetson		 I hope you can understand how special your world is... how unique a people you humans are.  So it us all the more painful and confusing to us that so few of you seem capable of living up the the ideals you set for yourselves.
sykes		Don't count on me, George.  I never had any ideals.
jetson		We don't understand the hatred, the contempt.  But we must bear it... we must not react in anger... because our situation here is still fragile. The separationists would see us returned to the quarantine camps. The fundamentalists say we have no more human rights than dogs or cats. But the prejudice we face here is so insignificant compared to the pain that we've known before.  And that is why we are so grateful.
sykes		Yeah, well... except I did hear you eat your dead.
jetson		 Only on Fridays.
sykes		You son-of-a-bitch.  You're okay.
jetson		I'm going home.
sykes		Yeah, go home.  Get some sleep.  You do sleep, don't you?
sykes		What a wildman...
sykes		This better be good news or money.
jetson		Hold this.  I feel very terrible.
sykes		Where'd you get this?!!
jetson		A man, a human, was wiring it to your car.  I didn't get a good look at him.  I must call my wife...
jetson		She's going to divorce me.
sykes		George, she's not gonna divorce you. You mate for life, remember?
jetson		She's very progressive.  I'm certain she's considering it.
secretary		You guys are looking for somebody named Strader, right?
sykes		Yeah.
secretary		Fedorchuk and Alterez just phoned in.  They found him.  Or at least what's left of him, washed up on the beach at Zuma.
secretary		 They're still there if you wanna catch them.
sykes		Well, let's roll, George.
jetson		 To the... to the beach?
sykes		Come on, let's go, dude.  Surf's up!
sykes		All right, okay.  Keep your pantyhose on.  Jeez, when in doubt, freak out, for chrissake.
sykes		 It's all right, George.  It's cool. Just wait here, all right?  I'll be back in a coupla minutes.
jetson		Thank you.
fedorchuk		Found his wallet in his jacket pocket.  Joshua Strader, big as life.
coroner's tech		Jesus, what a mess.  It's gonna be a bear to make a positive determination, but it looks to me like he was shot before being tossed in the drink.  At least twice--  -- here, and here.
sykes		How're you two doing on Tuggle's killer?
alterez		The store owner's son is in a street gang, so now we're thinking maybe it's gang related.
sykes		Yeah, that's real good.  You guys follow up on that for a coupla months.
fedorchuk		Look at your dildo partner.  He's too scared to even come down to the sand.  You're not gonna get wet standing here, moron!
sykes		I'd like to see you next to a sea of hydrochloric acid, Fedorchuk... see how much surfin' you'd do.
sykes		Cute.
fedorchuk		Well, if it isn't Detective Jetson. Forget you hip waders, big guy?
sykes		Lay off, asshole.
fedorchuk		I may be an asshole, but at least I'm a real detective, not some outer shit space thing.
sykes		Yeah?  you're a real honest-to-god detective...?
sykes		 Then detect these!
jetson		What was that about?
sykes		 Nothing.
sykes		... So we've got three guys dead. All Newcomers, all killed the same way -- execution style.
jetson		Warren Hubley was in middle management at a refinery... Joshua Strader operated a successful bar and nightclub...
sykes		... and Porter ran a piece of shit mom-and-pop mini-mart.  So what the hell's the connection?
sykes		You guys finished the postmortem on Strader yet?
winter		 You mean the Blob?  They're finishing up now.
jetson		Is Bentner here?  I must speak with him.
winter		He went home early -- his kid was sick.
winter		 Yeah, but he left something for you.
winter		 Does this have something to do with the test he ran that he wouldn't tell me about?
sykes		 What kind of test?
winter		Looking for some foreign compound in the blood of that alien you dropped the other day.
sykes		Did he find anything?
sykes		 Well?
jetson		It is nothing.
sykes		What's this nothing shit?  It wasn't nothing yesterday when you asked Bentner to run that test and he looked like he was about to shit peach pits, and it's not nothing now.  Don't lie to me, George, you're bad at it.
jetson		 You must leave me alone on this.
sykes		No, see, I don't leave you alone... I'm your partner.  I don't work that way... Tug didn't work that way.
sykes		 No secrets, goddammit!  You don't hold back from me.  Whatever is going on, you're gonna tell me now!
jetson		 No.  I cannot involve you.  This is not your concern.
sykes		The hell it isn't, when somebody wires up enough C-4 explosive to my car to turn me into pink mist!  TELL ME!  What is it?
jetson		 ... It is called ss'jabroka'.  To us it is a potent narcotic.
sykes		How potent?
jetson		Like your cocaine, I suppose.  The "high" lasts several hours.  We would receive small amounts of it... as a reward for our labor.
sykes		We?  You've taken it?
jetson		We all did.
sykes		Where did he get it?  Was there any of it on the ship?
jetson		No... I am sure not.  That is why I am so concerned... someone must now be producing it here.  But none of my people know how to make it.  The process was carefully guarded.
sykes		 Why didn't you tell me sooner? Why'd you hold out on me?
jetson		Your people don't know about this part of out past.  And they can't know -- It would threaten our entire existence here.
sykes		George... look me in the eye... George, you don't ever lie to me again.
jetson		I must trust you, Matthew.  I cannot stop this without you.
sykes		George?  How about you drive...
sykes		There's gotta be some other connection.
operator		Here's Hubley.  Left Quarantine on November thirtieth, relocated first to Riverside, then moved to Los Angeles early in February the following year.  Field of expertise: chemical manufacturing.  Looks like he passed up several other better paying jobs waiting for that one at the refinery.
sykes		Try Joshua Strader, will ya, darlin'?
operator		For you, anything.
operator		 Released on November twenty-ninth. Came immediately to L.A.  Ten weeks after arriving he took over the abandoned club which is now Encounters.
jetson		 Now the store owner, please.  Cecil Porter.
operator		Released December one.  He and his wife moved first to Modesto, then Coalinga, California -- wherever that is -- settled in L.A. in April.  Field of expertise: organic chemical engineering.  He and his wife have one child, a son.
sykes		Yeah -- we met him.  Wonderful boy... close personal friend of George's here.
operator		I'm sorry, Matt.  Nothing here seems to be matching up...
sykes		Holy shit...  You and the store owner's son -- that punker!
jetson		... Quarantine.
sykes		Can you dig up their Quarantine records in this thing?
operator		Sure.  Just a minute.
operator		 Porter was in Lodge seven seven two.
harcourt		Quite lovely...  What is your name again?
cassandra		 Cassandra.
harcourt		 I will have to remember that...
jetson		They had months in quarantine to develop the plan.  Porter, with his chemistry background, must have somehow come up with the formula for the drug.  Hubley manufactured it -- at the refinery.  Strader, through the nightclub, established a distribution network.  And Harcourt--
sykes		Harcourt was the brain who brought it all together.
sykes		Okay, George -- we gotta play this real smart.
jetson		If the drug is here, we must destroy it.
sykes		No, George -- you're missing the point.  The drug is evidence.  We need to have the evidence, ya know?
sykes		 That's the guy...
sykes		So much for playing it smart...
sykes		 Is that it...?
sykes		Uh, George...
jetson		 Where is the drug?  Where have they taken it?
jetson		 WHERE?!
sykes		George, uh... you're gonna break his little chest bones...
jetson		Stay out of this, Matthew.  Tell me where the drug has been taken or I will crush your lungs against this wall.
sykes		Don't piss him off, O'Neal.  When he gets like this, I can't control him. I've seen this before.  He got like this once -- I saw him jerk a guy's spine out and show it to him. Nothing I could do.  I hadda go throw up.
jetson		How much?
jetson		Where have they taken it?
sykes		George, c'mon -- lighten up.  It's a beauty of a case.  Don't sweat it -- we got him by the short hairs. He ain't gonna make any more of the shit.
jetson		The fifty kilos, Matthew.  I have to find it.  I can't let it get out on the street.
sykes		Why?  What's the big goddamn deal?
sykes		(continuing; as Jetson starts the car You destroy that drug, you destroy the case.  Don't blow the whole thing now by not following procedure.
jetson		 Fuck procedure.
sykes		Hey!!
sykes		GEORGE!  GODDAMMIT!!
sykes		Police.  Get out.  I need this thing.  Out, now!
jetson		I am here to take Harcourt.  Where is he?
cassandra		In there.
jetson		 Show me.
harcourt		 It's been a long time, hasn't it, gentlemen?
human dealer		What is it?
harcourt		A sweet indulgence from out past... resurrected for our future.
harcourt		 Please feel free to sample the quality.  The experience will be everything you remember it to be...
alien dealer		Where'd you get it?
harcourt		I arranged to spend some time with three very resourceful men.  With a certain amount of coaxing, one of them was able to reconstitute the formula for me.  They worked very well together. Unfortunately, they are no longer with us... but I was fortunate enough to reap the benefit of their endeavor.
human dealer		Let me try some.  Jesus!  Tastes like detergent!
harcourt		And that's all the effect it will have on you.  But when my fellow Newcomers learn they can obtain it here, they will work very hard... to make as much money as they can... to give it to me.
voice		You haven't told him all of it.
quint		He's got the C-4 charge!
quint		 Just take it real casual, buddy. Keep your finger on that button and don't do nothing squirrely.
harcourt		If you release that button, you not only kill us, but yourself.
jetson		To get you and that--  -- I would do it.
jetson		Everyone up against that wall. Very slowly.  Except you.
harcourt		One small matter seems to have escaped your attention.  That--  -- is not on any books as a controlled substance.  Legally it might as well be fifty kilos of... grape jelly.
jetson		The charge is murder... and conspiracy to commit murder. Hubley, Porter, Strader... probably others.
cassandra		You... you killed Strader?
cassandra		Where's Todd?!  Did you do something to Todd?!
harcourt		Todd?  Who is Todd.  Ah, poor Mr. Watson.
jetson		NOOO!
kipling		I got it!
harcourt		Kill them both.
kipling		Here?
harcourt		 Do it!
alien dealer		Don't shoot, man -- we're unarmed -- look!
sykes		You okay?
cassandra		 Yeah...
harcourt		Here!
jetson		This way!
jetson		Slow traffic on your right... you're clear at the left rear...  Careful, red light ahead...
jetson		Yellow light ahead turning red...
jetson		 Red light!  Red light!
jetson		Green light, Matthew.  Green light!
sykes		Shit!
jetson		Ss-ai!
sykes		Move your goddamned cars!
jetson		There!
sykes		Move a finger, Harcourt, and you're history...
harcourt		No, Sergeant -- not history...  Eternity...
jetson		With Harcourt and Kipling dead, I assume you will be requesting reassignment now.
sykes		 ... Still, I gotta tell you, George, for a quiet guy, you're sure hell on wheels once you get going.  I'd kinda hate to miss your next two days as a detective.
wiltey		I'll give you guys a lift to the station.  They're waiting to take your statements on the shootings.
sykes		 And it's shooting.  Singular.
wiltey		They said two.
sykes		Nope.  I didn't shoot Harcourt... he o.d.'d.
driver		So it's just me and her left in the hot tub, right?
attendant		You and the blonde?
driver		No, man, the redhead.  The blonde's gone in the house with some other guy.  But a few minutes later she comes back out, alone, when me and the redhead are going at it fast and furious in the tub, ya know... and she sees us, and... she climbs right in with us...
attendant		You're full of shit!
driver		I swear it!  If I'm lyin', I'm dyin'...
jetson		You are certain this is the route they would have taken?
wiltey		I'm not positive -- but probably.
sykes		 What's this about, George?  I know that look.
jetson		 There!  Go back.  Down that side street.
jetson		No!  We must do this alone.
sykes		Do what?!  George-- ?!
wiltey		Oh, God...
wiltey		I'm calling for back up, now.
jetson		Wiltey, no.
sykes		What is this?!
jetson		 ... It's Harcourt.
sykes		Harcourt is dead.
jetson		No he's not.  Not if he overdosed on the drug.  Massive amounts trigger a... a change.  Your body functions seize up, you appear to be dead, but it's really a state of incubation.  When you emerge you're...
sykes		 Tell me about it...
sykes		I never thought I'd say this, but -- for once in my life I think I'm willing to wait for back-up.
jetson		We can't let him get away.
sykes		Why the hell are you so dead set against back-up?
jetson		 Because... because of what will happen if humans see what we are capable of becoming.
sykes		But there's no more drug.
jetson		You understand that.  But how many others will?
wiltey		There he is!
jetson		Wiltey!
harcourt		 Looking for me, Sergeant?
jetson		On that boat -- out there!
captain		Hey!
jetson		Take it down!  Take it down!
jetson		 ALL THE WAY!
pilot		I CAN'T IT'LL DITCH!
jetson		 Take it up!
pilot		What the hell was that down there? It was weird.
sykes		Looked like every other damn slag to me.  Just plain ugly.
sykes		How do I look?
jetson		You look very good.
kristin		Ready, Daddy...?
sykes		George, uh... I want to apologize now, in advance, for all the rotten things I'll ever say or do to you over the years.
jetson		That is all right, Matthew.  After all, you are only human.
sykes		 What a wildman...
****Dialogues from script :aliens.txt****

first draft		May 28, 1985
leader		 Internal pressure positive.  Assume nominal hull integrity.  Hypersleep capsules, style circa late twenties...
leader		 Lights are green.  She's alive. Well, there goes out salvage, guys.
ripley		 Terrible.
ripley		How long have I been on Gateway station?
ripley		Jones!
ripley		 Come here Jonesy you ugly old moose...you ugly thing.
man		Nice room.  I'm Burke.  Carter Burke. I work for the company, but other than that I'm an okay guy.  Glad to see you're feeling better.  I'm told the weakness and disorientation should pass soon.  Side effects of the unusually long hypersleep, or something like that.
ripley		How long was I out there?  They won't tell me anything.
burke		 Well, maybe you shouldn't worry about that just yet.
ripley		How long?
burke		All right.  My instinct says you're strong enough to handle this...Fifty-seven years.
ripley		Fifty-seven...oh, Christ...
burke		You'd drifted right through the core systems.  It's blind luck that deep-salvage team caught you when they...are you all right?
ripley		No...noooo!
doctor		Hold her...Get me an airway, stat! And fifteen cc's of...Jesus!
ripley		 No.. I've slept enough.
ripley		We made it, Jones.  We made it.
ripley		 Dumbshit.
burke		Sorry...I've been running behind all morning.
ripley		Have they located my daughter yet?
burke		Well, I was going to wait until after the inquest...
ripley		Is she...?
burke		 I'm sorry.
ripley		Amy.
burke		 Cancer.  Hmmmm.  They still haven't licked that one.  Cremated.  Interred Parkside Repository, Little Chute, Wisconsin.  No children.
ripley		I promised her I'd be home for her birthday.  Her eleventh birthday.  I sure missed that one.  Well...she has already learned to take my promises with a grain of salt.  When it came to flight schedules, anyway.
ripley		You always think you can make it up to somebody...later, you know. But now I never can.  I never can.
burke		 The hearing convenes at 0930.  You don't want to be late.
ripley		You read my deposition...it's complete and accurate.
burke		Look, I believe you, but there are going to be some heavyweights in there.  You got Feds, you got interstellar commerce commission, you got colonial administration, insurance company guys...
ripley		I get the picture.
burke		Just tell them what happened.  The important thing is to stay cool and unemotional.
ripley		Do you people have earwax, of what?  We have been here three hours.  How many different ways do you want me to tell the same story?
van leuwen		Look at it from our perspective. You freely admit to detonating the engines of, and thereby destroying, an M-Class star-freighter.  A rather expensive piece of hardware...
van leuwen		The shuttle's flight recorder corroborates some elements of your account.  That the Nostromo set down on LV-426, an unsurveyed planet, at that time.  That repairs were made.  That it resumed its course and was subsequently set for self-destruct.  By you.  For reasons unknown.
ripley		Look, I told you...
van leuwen		It did not, however, contain any entries concerning the hostile life form you allegedly picked up.
ripley		Then somebody's gotten to it... doctored the recorder.  Who had access to it?
eca rep		Would you just listen to yourself for one minute.
van leuwen		The analysis team which went over your shuttle centimeter by centimeter found no physical evidence of the creature you describe...
ripley		 Like I said.
insurance man		 Are there any species like this 'hostile organism' on LV-426?
eca rep		No.  It's a rock.  No indigenous life larger than a simple virus.
ripley		I told you, it wasn't indigenous. There was an alien spacecraft there. A derelict ship.  We homed on its beacon...
eca rep		To be perfectly frank, we've surveyed over three hundred worlds and no one's ever reported a creature which, using your words...  ...'gestates in a living human host' and has 'concentrated molecular acid for blood.'
ripley		Look, I can see where this is going.  But I'm telling you those things exist.  Back on that planetoid is an alien ship and on that ship are thousands of eggs.  Thousands. Do you understand?  I suggest you find it, using the flight recorder's data.  Find it and deal with it -- before one of your survey teams comes back with a little surprise...
van leuwen		Thank you, Officer Ripley.  That will be...
ripley		 ...because just one of those things managed to kill my entire crew, within twelve hours of hatching...
van leuwen		Thank you, that will be all.
ripley		That's not all, Goddamnit!  If those things get back here, that will be all.  Then you can just kiss it good-bye, Jack!  Just kiss it goodbye.
burke		You had them eating out of your hand, kiddo.
ripley		They had their minds made up before I even went in there. They think I'm a head case.
burke		 You are a head case.  Have a donut.
van leuwen		It is the finding of this board of inquiry that Warrent Officer Ellen Ripley, NOC-14672. has acted with questionable judgment and is unfit to hold an ICC license as a commercial flight officer.
van leuwen		Said license is hereby suspended indefinitely.  No criminal charges will be filed at this time and you are released on own recognizance for a six month period of psychometric probation, to include monthly review by an ICC psychiatric tech...
ripley		 Why won't you check out LV-426?
van leuwen		 Because I don't have to.  The people who live there checked it out years ago and they never reported and 'hostile organism' or alien ship.  And by the way, they call it Acheron now.
ripley		What are you talking about. What people?
van leuwen		Terraformers...planet engineers. It's what we call a shake 'n' bake colony.  They set up atmosphere processors to make the air breathable...big job.  Takes decades.  They've already been there over twenty years.  Peacefully.
ripley		How many colonists?
van leuwen		Sixty, maybe seventy families.
ripley		 Sweet Jesus.
elevator passenger		Do you mind?
lydecker		You remember you sent some wildcatters out to that plateau, out past the Ilium range, a couple days ago?
simpson		Yeah.  What?
lydecker		There's a guy on the horn, mom-and-pop survey team.  Says he's homing on something and wants to know if his claim will be honored.
simpson		Christ.  Some honch in a cushy office on Earth says go look at a grid reference in the middle of nowhere, we look.  They don't say why, and I don't ask.  I don't ask because it takes two weeks to get an answer out here and the answer's always 'don't ask.'
lydecker		So what do I tell this guy?
simpson		Tell him, as far as I'm concerned, he finds something it's his.
jorden		 Look at this fat, juicy magnetic profile.  And it's mine, mine, mine.
anne		Half mine, dear.
newt		And half mine!
jorden		I got too many partners.
newt		Daddy, when are we going back to town?
jorden		When we get rich, Newt.
newt		You always say that.  I wanna go back.  I wanna play 'Monster Maze.'
tim		You cheat too much.
newt		Do not.  I'm just the best.
tim		Do too!  You go in places we can't fit.
newt		So!  That's why I'm the best.
anne		Knock it off!  I catch either of you playing in the air ducts again I'll tan your hides.
newt		Mom.  All the kids play it...
jorden		 Holy shiiit!
jorden		Folks, we have scored big this time.
anne		You kids stay inside.  I mean it!  We'll be right back.
anne		Shouldn't we call in?
jorden		Let's wait till we know what to call it in as.
anne		 How about 'big weird thing'?
tim		Cheater!
newt		Timmy...they've been gone a long time.
tim		 It'll be okay, Newt.  Dad knows what he's doing.
anne		Mayday!  Mayday!  This is Alpha Kilo Two Four Niner calling Hadley Control. Repeat.  This is...
bon		 Best decision I ever made, Bill. We'll be starting a new life from scratch, in a clean world. No crime.  No unemployment...
burke		Hi, Ripley.  This is Lieutenant Gorman of the...
burke		Ripley we have to talk.  They've lost contact with the colony on Acheron.
ripley		No.  There's no way!
burke		Hear me out...
ripley		I was reamed, steamed and dry-cleaned by you guys...and now you want me to go back out there?  Forget it.
burke		Look, we don't know what's going on out there.  It may just be a down transmitter.  But if it's not, I want you there...as an advisor.  That's all.
gorman		You wouldn't be going in with the troops.  I can guarantee your safety.
burke		These Colonial Marines are some tough hombres, and they're packing state-of-the-art firepower. Nothing they can't handle...right, Lieutenant?
gorman		 We're trained to deal with these kinds of situations.
ripley		 What about you?  What's your interest in this?
burke		Well, the corporation co-financed that colony with the Colonial Administration, against mineral rights.  We're getting into a lot of terraforming...'Building Better Worlds.'
ripley		Yeah, yeah.  I saw the commercial.
burke		I heard you were working in the cargo docks.
ripley		 That's right.
burke		Running loaders, forklifts, that sort of thing?
ripley		 It's all I could get.  Anyway, it keeps my mind off of... everything.  Days off are worse.
burke		What if I said I could get you reinstated as a flight officer? And that the company has agreed to pick up your contract?
ripley		If I go.
burke		If you go.  It's a second chance, kiddo.  And it'll be the best thing in the world for you to face this fear and beat it.  You gotta get back on the horse...
ripley		 Spare me, Burke.  I've had my psych evaluation this month.
burke		Yes, and I've read it.  You wake up every night, sheets soaking, the same nightmare over and over...
ripley		 No!  The answer is no.  Now please go.  I'm sorry.  Just go, would you.
burke		Think about it.
burke		 Yello?  Oh, Ripley.  Hi...
ripley		Burke, just tell me one thing. That you're going out there to kill them.  Not study.  Not bring back.  Just burn them out...clean ...forever.
burke		That's the plan.  My word on it.
ripley		All right.  I'm in.
ripley		And you my dear, are staying right here.
spunkmeyer		Arrgh.  I'm getting too old for this shit.
drake		They ain't payin' us enough for this.
dietrich		Not enough to have to wake up to your face, Drake.
drake		Suck air.  Hey, Hicks...you look like I feel.
hudson		This floor's freezing.
apone		Christ.  I never saw such a buncha old women.  You want me to fetch your slippers, Hudson?
hudson		Would you, Sir?
hudson		Hey, Vasquez...you ever been mistaken for a man?
vasquez		No.  Have you?
frost		Hey, hand job, you take my towel?
spunkmeyer		 I need some slack, man.  How come they send us straight back out like this?  We got some slack comin', man.
hicks		You just got three weeks.
spunkmeyer		I mean breathing, not this frozen shit.
dietrich		Yeah, 'Top'...what about it?
apone		You know it ain't up to me.  Awright!  Let's knock off the grabass.  First assembly's in fifteen...let's shag it.
vasquez		Who's the fresh meat again?
ferro		She's supposed to be some kinda consultant...  ...She was an alien once.
hudson		Whoooah!  No shit?  I'm impressed.
apone		Let's go...let's go.  Cycle through!
hudson		Hey, 'Top.'  What's the op?
apone		Rescue mission.  There's some juicy colonists' daughters we gotta rescue from virginity.
spunkmeyer		Shee-it.  Dumbass colonists. What's this crap supposed to be?
wierzbowski		Cornbread, I think.  Hey, I wouldn't mind getting me some more a that Arcturan poontang.  Remember that time?
hicks		 Looks like that new Lieutenant's too good to eat with us grunts.
wierzbowski		 Yeah.  Got a corn cob up his ass, definitely.
bishop		I'm sorry you feel that way about Synthetics, Ripley.
ripley		You never said anything about an android being here!  Why not?
burke		Well, it didn't occur to me.  It's been policy for years to have a synthetic on board.
bishop		I prefer the term 'artificial person' myself.  Is there a problem?
burke		A synthetic malfunctioned on her last trip out.  Some deaths were involved.
bishop		I'm shocked.  Was it an older model?
bishop		Well, that explains it.  The A/2's were always a bit twitchy. That could never happen now with out behavioral inhibitors.  Impossible for me to harm or, by omission of action, allow to be harmed a human being.  More cornbread?
ripley		Just stay away from me, Bishop! You got that straight?
wierzbowski		She don't like the cornbread either.
apone		Tench-hut!
gorman		At ease.  I'm sorry we didn't have time to brief before we left Gateway but...
hudson		Sir?
gorman		 Yes, Hicks?
hudson		Hudson, Sir.  He's Hicks.
gorman		What's the question?
hudson		Is this going to be a stand-up fight, Sir, on another bug-hunt?
gorman		All we know is that there's still no contact with the colony and that a xenomorph may be involved.
wierzbowski		A what?
hicks		 So what are these things?
ripley		I've dictated what I know on these.
apone		Tease us a bit.
spunkmeyer		Yeah...previews.
ripley		Okay.  It's important to understand this organism's life cycle.  It's actually two creatures.  The first form hatches from a spore...a sort of large egg, and attaches itself to its victim.  Then it injects an embryo, detaches and dies. It's essentially a walking sex organ. The --
hudson		Sounds like you, Hicks.
ripley		 ...then it...emerges.  Moults. Grows rapidly --
vasquez		I only need to know one thing.
ripley		Yes?
vasquez		Where they are.
drake		Yo!  Vasquez.  Kick ass!
vasquez		Anytime.  Anywhere.
hudson		Somebody said alien...she thought they said illegal alien and signed up.
vasquez		Fuck you.
hudson		Anytime.  Anywhere.
ripley		 Am I disturbing you conversation Mr. Hudson?
ripley		I hope you're right.  I really do.
burke		 I suggest you study the disks Ripley has been kind enough to prepare for you.
gorman		Are there any questions?  Hudson?
hudson		How do I get out of this chicken-shit outfit?
gorman		All right.  I want this to go smooth and by the numbers.  I want DCS and tactical database assimilation by 0830.  Ordnance loading, weapons strip and drop-ship prep details will have seven hours...
bishop		 Attention.  This concluded final maneuvering operations.  Thank you for your cooperation.  You may resume work.
burke		Still nothing from the colony?
gorman		Dead on all channels.
frost		Clear, please.
hudson		Excuse me.
ripley		I feel like a fifth wheel here.  Is there anything I can do?
apone		I don't know.  Is there anything you can do?
ripley		 I can drive that loader.  I've got a Class Two rating.  My latest career move.
ripley		Where you want it?
apone		Let's move it, girls!  On the ready line.  Let's go, let's go.
hudson		I am ready, man.  Ready to get it on.  Check-it-out.  I am the ultimate badass...state of the badass art.  You do not want to fuck with me.  Hey, Ripley, don't worry.  Me and my squad of ultimate badasses will protect you. Check-it-out...
hudson		Independently targetting particle-beam phalanx.  VWAP! Fry half a city with this puppy. We got tactical smart-missles, phased-plasma pulse-rifles, RPG's.  We got sonic eeelectronic ballbreakers, we got nukes, we got knives...sharp sticks --
hicks		Save it.
hudson		Sure, Hicks.
burke		Here we go.
ferro		Initiate release sequencer on my mark.  Three.  Two.  One.  Mark!
ferro		 Switching to DCS ranging.
spunkmeyer		Two-four-o.  Nominal to profile. Picking up some hull ionization.
ferro		Got it.  Rough air ahead.
ferro		 Stand by for some chop.
ripley		How may drops is this for you, Lieutenant?
gorman		Thirty-eight...simulated.
vasquez		How many combat drops?
gorman		Well...two.  Three, including this one.
ferro		Turning on final.  Coming around to a seven-zero-niner.  Terminal guidance locked in.  Where's the damn beacon?
gorman		Let's see.  Everybody on line. Drake, check you camera.  There seems to be a...
gorman		 ...that's better.  Pan it around a bit.
apone		Awright.  Fire-team A.  Gear up. Let's move.  Two minutes. Somebody wake up Hicks.
ripley		That the atmosphere processor?
burke		Uh-hunh.  One of thirty or so, all over the planet.  They're completely automated.  We manufacture them, by the way.
gorman		 Hold at forty.  Slow circle of the complex.
gorman		 Okay, let's do it.
apone		Awright!  I want a nice clean dispersal this time.
vasquez		You staying in here?
ripley		You bet.
vasquez		 Figures.
gorman		 Set down sixty meters this side of the telemetry mast.  Immediate dust off on my 'clear,' then stay on station.
apone		Ten seconds, people.  Look sharp!
gorman		 First squad up, on line.  Hicks, get yours in a cordon.  Watch the rear.
apone		Vasquez, take point.  Let's move.
apone		Sealed.  Hudson, run a bypass.
apone		First squad, assemble on me at the main lock.
gorman		 Second team, move up. Flanking positions.
gorman		Quarter and search by twos.  Second team move inside.  Hicks, take the upper level.  Use your motion trackers.
hicks		Nothing.  No movement.
burke		Looks like my room in college.
ripley		Wait!  Tell him to...  ...Hicks.  Back up.  Pan left. There!
hicks		 You seeing this okay?  Looks melted.
burke		Hmm.  Acid for blood.
hicks		 Looks like somebody bagged them one of Ripley's bad guys here.
hudson		Hey, if you like that, you're gonna love this...
apone		Second squad?  What's your status?
hicks		 Just finished our sweep. Nobody home.
apone		 The place is dead, Sir.  Whatever happened, we missed it.
gorman		All right, the area's secured. Let's go in and see what their computer can tell us.  First team head for operations. Hudson, see if you can get their CPU on line.  Hicks, meet me at the south lock by the up-link tower...
gorman		 ...We're coming in.
hudson		 He's coming in.  I feel safer already.
vasquez		 Pendejo jerkoff.
hudson		 Sir, the CPU is on-line.
gorman		Okay, stand by in operations.  Let's go.
ripley		 Burke!
wierzbowski		Scare you?
ripley		Christ, Wierzbowski!
wierzbowski		Sorry.  Hicks said to keep an eye on you.
gorman		 Looks like you company can write off its share of this colony.
burke		 It's insured.
front		Sir, you should check this out...
frost		Right ahead here...
wierzbowski		Last stand.
gorman		No bodies?
frost		No, Sir.  Looks like it was a helluva fight.
ripley		 Over there.
burke		Are these the same...?
ripley		Watch it, Burke...
hicks		 It likes you.
burke		These are dead.  There's just the two alive.
ripley		 They killed him getting it off.
hicks		Poor bastard.
hicks		Behind us.
ripley		One of us?
gorman		 Apone...where are your people? Anybody in D-Block?
apone		 Negative.  We're all in Operations.
hicks		It's moving.
vasquez		Which way?
vasquez		You fuck!
ripley		 Come on out.  It's all right...
hicks		Ow!  Shit.  Watchit, she bites.
ripley		It's okay, it's okay.  It's over... you're going to be all right now... it's okay...you're safe...
gorman		 What's her name again?
dietrich		 Rebecca.
gorman		Now think, Rebecca. Concentrate.  Just start at the beginning...
gorman		Where are your parents?  You have to try...
ripley		 Gorman!  Give it a rest would you.
gorman		Total brain-lock.
dietrich		 Physically she's okay. Borderline malnutrition, but I don't think any permanent damage.
gorman		Come on, we're wasting our time.
ripley		Here, try this.  A little instant hot chocolate.
ripley		 Poor thing.  You don't talk much do you?  That's okay by me.  Most people do a lot of talking and they wind up not saying very much.
ripley		Uh oh.  I made a clean spot here.  Now I've done it.  Guess I'll just have to do the whole thing.
ripley		Hard to believe...there's a little girl under all this. And a pretty one at that.
burke		 What's he scanning for?
gorman		PDT'S.  Personal-Data Transmitters. Every adult colonist had one surgically implanted.
hudson		If they're within twenty klicks we'll read it out here, but so far...zip.
ripley		I don't know how you managed to stay alive but you're one brave kid, Rebecca.
newt		N-newt.
ripley		What did you say?
newt		Newt.  My n-name's Newt. Nobody calls me Rebecca except my dork brother.
ripley		Well, Newt it is then.  My name's Ripley...and people call me Ripley.
ripley		Pleased to meet you.  And who is this?  Does she have a name?
newt		Casey.  She's my only friend.
ripley		What about me?
newt		I don't want you for a friend.
ripley		Why not?
ripley		Oh, Newt.  You mom and dad went away like that, didn't they?
ripley		 They'd be here if they could, honey.  I know they would.
newt		 They're dead.
ripley		Newt.  Look at me...Newt.  I won't leave you.  I promise.
newt		You promise?
ripley		Cross my heart.
newt		And hope to die?
ripley		 And hope to die.
hudson		Hah!  Stop your grinnin' and drop your linen!  Found 'em.
gorman		Alive?
hudson		Unknown.  But, it looks like all of them.  Over at the processing station...sublevel 'C' under the south tower.
hicks		Looks like a Goddamn town meeting.
gorman		Let's saddle up.
apone		Awright, let's go girls, they ain't payin' us by the hour.
newt		I was the best at the game. I knew the whole maze.
ripley		The 'maze'?  You mean the air ducts?
newt		Yeah, you know.  In the walls, under the floor.  I was the ace.  I could hide better than anybody.
ripley		You're really something, ace.
gorman		 Forty meters in.  Ramp on axial two-two.  Access to sublevels.
gorman		 B-Level.  Next one down.
gorman		 We're not making that out too well.  What is it?
hudson		 You tell me.  I only work here.
gorman		What is it?
ripley		I don't know.
gorman		 Proceed inside.
ripley		 Oh God...
dietrich		 Looks like some sort of secreted resin.
gorman		They ripped apart the colony for building materials.
ripley		And the colonists...When they were done with them.  Newt, you better go sit up front.  Go on.
frost		Hotter'n hell in here.
hudson		Yeah...but it's a dry heat.
ripley		They're right under the primary heat exchangers.
burke		Yeah?  Maybe the organisms like the heat, that's why they built...
ripley		That's not what I mean.  Gorman, if your men have to use their weapons in there, they'll rupture the cooling system.
burke		 She's right.
gorman		So.
ripley		So...then the fusion containment shuts down.
gorman		 So?  So?
burke		We're talking thermonuclear explosion.
gorman		Shit.  Apone, collect magazines from everybody.  We can't have any firing in there.
wierzbowski		Is he fucking crazy?
hudson		What're we supposed to use, man?  Harsh language?
gorman		 Flame-units only.  I want rifles slung.
apone		Let's go.  Pull 'em out.
hicks		 I always keep this handy. For close encounter.
apone		 Let's move.  Hicks, back us up.
gorman		 Any movement?
hudson		Nothing.  Zip.
dietrich		Sir!
woman		Please...God...kill me.
apone		Flame thrower!  Move!
hudson		Movement!
apone		Position?
hudson		Can't lock up...
apone		 Talk to me, Hudson.
hudson		Uh, seems to be in front and behind.
gorman		We can't see anything back here, Apone.  What's going on?
ripley		 Pull you team out, Gorman.
apone		Go to infrared.  Looks sharp people!
hudson		Multiple signals.  All round. Closing.
vasquez		Let's rock.
gorman		 Who's firing?  I ordered a hold fire, dammit!
hudson		 Let's get the fuck out of here!
hicks		 Not that tunnel, the other one!
crowe		 You sure?  Watch it...behind you.  Fucking move, will you!
ripley		 GET THEM OUT OF THERE!  DO IT NOW!
gorman		Shut up.  Just shut up!
gorman		Uh,...Apone, I want you to lay down a suppressing fire with the incinerators and fall back by squads to the APC, over.
apone		 Say again?  All after incinerators?
gorman		I said...
apone		Dietrich?  Crowe?  Sound off!  Wierzbowski?
hudson		 We're getting juked!  We're gonna die in here!
apone		Yeah.  Right.  Right!  Fuck the heat exchanger!
gorman		 I told them to fall back...
ripley		 They're but off!  Do something!
ripley		 Newt, put your seatbelt on!
gorman		Ripley, what the hell...?
gorman		 What are you doing?  Turn around!  That's an order!
vasquez		Drake!  He's down!
hicks		He's gone!  Forget it, he's gone!
vasquez		 No.. No, he's not.  He's --
hicks		 Let's go!
hicks		Get on the Goddamn door!
hicks		It's okay...we're clear.  We're clear.  Ease up.
hicks		Sounds like a blown transaxle. You're just grinding metal.
ripley		Newt?  Where's Newt?
ripley		You okay?
hudson		Jesus...Jesus...I don't believe it.
hudson		 I'm all right, leave it!
hicks		He's alive.  I think he's paralyzed.
vasquez		He's fucking dead!
vasquez		 Wake up pendejo!  I'm gonna kill you, you useless fuck!
hicks		Hold it.  Hold it.  Back off, right now.
ripley		Looks like it stung him.
hudson		Hey...hey!  Look, Crowe and Dietrich aren't dead, man.
hudson		They must be like Gorman.  Their signs are real low but they ain't dead!
ripley		You can't help them.  Right now they're being cocooned just like the others.
hudson		 Oh, God.  Jesus.  This ain't happening.
spunkmeyer		Need anything else?
vasquez		All right, we can't blow the fuck out of them...why not roll some canisters of CN-20 down there. Nerve gas the whole nest?
hudson		Look, man, let's just bug out and call it even, okay?
ripley		 No good.  How do we know it'll effect their biochemistry?  I say we take off and nuke the entire site from orbit.  It's the only way to be sure.
burke		Now hold on a second.  I'm not authorizing that action.
ripley		Why not?
burke		Well, I mean...I know this is an emotional moment, but let's not make snap judgments.  Let's move cautiously.  First, this physical installation had a substantial dollar value attached to it --
ripley		They can bill me.  I got a tab running.  What's second?
burke		This is clearly an important species we're dealing with here. We can't just arbitrarily exterminate them --
ripley		Bullshit!
vasquez		Yeah, bullshit.  Watch us.
hudson		Maybe you haven't been keeping up on current events, but we just got out asses kicked, pal!
ripley		Look, Burke.  We had an agreement.
burke		I know, I know, but we're dealing with changing scenarios here.  This thing is major, Ripley.  I mean really major.  You gotta go with its energy.  Since you are the representative of the company who discovered this species your percentage will naturally be some serious, serious money.
ripley		You son of a bitch.
burke		 Don't make me pull rank, Ripley.
ripley		What rank?  I believe Corporal Hicks has authority here.
burke		Corporal Hicks!?
ripley		This operation is under military jurisdiction and Hicks is next in chain of command.  Right?
hicks		Looks that way.
burke		Look, this is a multimillion dollar operation.  He can't make that kind of decision.  He's just a grunt!  No offense.
hicks		 Ferro, you copying?
ferro		 Standing by.
hicks		Prep for dust-off.  We're gonna need an immediate evac.  I think we'll take off and nuke the site from orbit.  It's the only way to be sure.
burke		This is absurd!  You don't have the authority to --
ripley		We're going home, honey.
ferro		Spunkmeyer?  Goddammit.
ferro		 Where the fu --
ripley		Run!
hudson		 Well that's great!  That's just fucking great, man.  Now what the fuck are we supposed to do, man? We're in some real pretty shit now!
hicks		Are you finished?  You okay?
newt		I guess we're not leaving, right?
ripley		I'm sorry, Newt.
newt		You don't have to be sorry.  It wasn't your fault.
hudson		 Just tell me what the fuck we're supposed to do now.  What're we gonna do now?
burke		 May be could build a fire and sing songs.
newt		We should get back, 'cause it'll be dark soon.  They come mostly at night.  Mostly.
hicks		This is all we could salvage.  We've got four pulse-rifles with about fifty rounds each.  Not so good. About fifteen M-40 grenades and two flame throwers less than half full...one damaged.  And We've got four of these robot-sentry units with scanners and display intact.
ripley		How long after we're declared overdue can we expect a rescue?
hicks		About seventeen days.
hudson		Man, we're not going to make it seventeen hours!  Those things are going to come in here, just like they did before, man... they're going to come in here and get us, man, long before...
ripley		She survived longer than that with no weapons and no training.
ripley		So you better just start dealing with it.  Just deal with it, Hudson...because we need you and I'm tired of your bullshit.  Now get on a terminal and call up some kind of floor plan file. Construction blueprints, maintenance schematics, anything that shows the layout of this place.  I want to see air ducts, electrical access tunnels, subbasements.  Every possible way into this wing.
hudson		Aye-firmative.  I'm on it.
bishop		I'll be in medical.  I'd like to continue my analysis.
ripley		Fine.  You do that.
ripley		This service tunnel is how they're moving back and forth.
hudson		Yeah, right, it runs from the processing station right into the sublevel here.
ripley		All right.  There's a fire door at this end.  The first thing we do is put a remote sentry in the tunnel and seal that door.
hicks		We gotta figure on them getting into the complex.
ripley		That's right.  So we put up welded barricades at these intersections...  ...and seal these ducts here and here.  Then they can only come at us from these two corridors and we create a free field of fire for the other two sentry units, here.
hicks		Outstanding.  Then all we need's a deck of cards.  All right, let's move like we got a purpose.
hudson		Aye-firmative.
newt		 Aye-firmative!
vasquez		 Testing!
hudson		Hudson here.  A and B sentries are in place and keyed.  We're sealing the tunnel.
hicks		 Roger.
hicks		Here, put this on.  Then I can locate you anywhere in the complex on this --
hicks		Just a...precaution.  You know.
ripley		 Thanks.
hudson		Uh, what's next?
ripley		Now you just lie here and have a nap.  You're exhausted.
newt		I don't want to...I have scary dreams.
ripley		I'll bet Casey doesn't have bad dreams.
ripley		Nothing bad in here.  Maybe you could just try to be like her.
newt		Ripley...she doesn't have bad dreams because she's just a piece of plastic.
ripley		Oh.  Sorry, Newt.
newt		My mommy always said there were no monsters.  No real ones.  But there are.
ripley		 Yes, there are, aren't there.
newt		Why do they tell little kids that?
ripley		Well, some kids can't handle it like you can.
newt		Did one of those things grow inside her?
ripley		I don't know, Newt.  That's the truth.
newt		Isn't that how babies come? I mean people babies...they grow inside you?
ripley		No, it's different, honey.
newt		Did you ever have a baby?
ripley		Yes.  A little girl.
newt		Where is she?
ripley		 Gone.
newt		You mean dead.
newt		Ripley, I was just thinking... Maybe I could do you a favor and fill in for her.  Just for a while.  You can try it and if you don't like it, it's okay. I'll understand.  No big deal. Whattya think?
ripley		I think it's not the worst idea I've heard all day.  Let's talk about it later.
newt		Don't go!  Please.
ripley		I'll be right in the other room, Newt.  And look...I can see you on that camera right up there.
ripley		Here.  Take is for luck.  Now go to sleep...and don't dream.
ripley		 How is he?
bishop		I've isolated a neuro-muscular toxin responsible for the paralysis.  It seems to be metabolizing.  He should wake up soon.
ripley		Now let me get this straight. The aliens paralyzed the colonists, carried them over there, cocooned them to be hosts for more of those...
ripley		Which would mean lots of those parasites, right?  One for each person...over a hundred at least.
bishop		Yes.  That follows.
ripley		But these things come from eggs...so where are all the eggs coming from.
bishop		That is the question of the hour.  We could assume a parallel to certain insect forms who have hivelike organization. An ant of termite colony, for example, is ruled by a single female, a queen, which is the source of new eggs.
ripley		You're saying one of those things lays all the eggs?
bishop		Well, the queen is always physically larger then the others.  A termite queen's abdomen is so bloated with eggs that it can't move at all.  It is fed and tended by drone workers, defended by the warriors.  She is the center of their lives, quite literally the  mother of their society.
ripley		Could it be intelligent?
bishop		Hard to say.  It may have been blind instinct...attraction to the heat of whatever...but she did choose to incubate her eggs in the one spot where we couldn't destroy her without destroying ourselves.  That's if she exists, of course.
ripley		 I want those specimens destroyed as soon as you're done with them. You understand?
bishop		Mr. Burke have instructions that they were to be kept alive in stasis for return to the company labs.  He was very specific.
ripley		Burke!
burke		Those specimens are worth millions to the bio-weapons division.  Now, if you're smart we can both come out of this heroes.  Set up for life.
ripley		You just try getting a dangerous organism past ICC quarantine. Section 22350 of the Commerce Code.
burke		You've been doing your homework. Look, they can't impound it if they don't know about it.
ripley		But they will know about it, Burke. From me.  Just like they'll know how you were responsible for the deaths of one hundred and fifty-seven colonists here --
burke		Now, wait a second --
ripley		 You sent them to that ship.  I just checked the colony log... directive dates six-twelve-seventy-nine. Signed Burke, Carter J.
ripley		You sent them out there and you didn't even warn them, Burke. Why didn't you warn them?
burke		Look, maybe the thing didn't even exist, right?  And if I'd made it a major security situation, the Administration would've stepped in.  Then no exclusive rights, nothing.
burke		It was a bad call, that's all.
ripley		Bad call?  These people are fucking dead, Burke!  Well, they're going to nail your hide to the shed... and I'll be there when they do.
burke		 I expected more of you, Ripley. I thought you would be smarter than this.
ripley		Sorry to disappoint you.
hicks		They're coming.  They're in the tunnel.
hicks		Guns A and B.  Tracking and firing on multiple targets.
hudson		They must be wall to wall in there.  Look  at those ammo counters go.  It's a shooting gallery down there.
hicks		B gun's dry.  Twenty on A. Ten.  Five.  That's it.
ripley		They're at the fire door.
hudson		Man, listen to that.
bishop		 Bishop here.  I'm afraid I have some bad news.
hudson		Well, that's a switch.
bishop		That's it.  See it?  Emergency venting.
ripley		How long until it blows?
bishop		I'm projecting total systems failure in a little under four hours.  The blast radius will be about thirty kilometers.  About equal to ten megatons.
hicks		We got problems.
hudson		I don't fucking believe this. Do you believe this?
ripley		And it's too late to shut it down?
bishop		I'm afraid so.  The crash did too much damage.  The overload is inevitable, at this point.
hudson		Oh, man.  And I was gettin' short, too!  Four more weeks and out. Now I'm gonna buy it on this fuckin' rock.  It ain't half fair, man!
vasquez		Hudson, give us a break.
ripley		 We need the other drop-ship.  The on one the Sulaco.  We have to bring it down on remote, somehow.
hudson		How?  The transmitter was on the APC.  It's wasted.
ripley		 I don't care how!  Think of a way.  Think of something.
hudson		Think of what?  We're fucked.
ripley		What about the colony transmitter? That up-link tower down at the other end.  Why can't we use that?
bishop		I checked.  The hard wiring between here and there was severed in the fighting.
ripley		Well then somebody's just going to have to go out there.  Take a portable terminal and go out there and plug in manually.
hudson		Oh, right!  Right!  With those things running around.  No way.
bishop		 I'll go.
ripley		What?
bishop		I'm really the only one qualified to remote-pilot the ship anyway. Believe me, I'd prefer not to.  I may be synthetic but I'm not stupid.
ripley		All right.  Let's get on it.  What'll you need?
vasquez		Listen.  It's stopped.
hicks		Well, they're into the complex.
bishop		This duct runs almost to the up-link assembly.  One hundred eighty meters.  Say, forty minutes to crawl down there.  One hour to patch in and align the antenna. Thirty minutes to prep the ship, then about fifty minutes flight time.
ripley		It's going to be closer.  You better get going.
bishop		 See you soon.
hicks		 They're in the approach corridor.
ripley		 On my way.
hicks		Twenty meters and closing. Fifteen.  C and D guns down about fifty percent.
ripley		Now many?
hicks		Can't tell.  Lots.  D gun's down to twenty.  Ten.  It's out.
ripley		They retreated.  The guns stopped them.
hicks		Yeah.  But look...
hicks		Newt time then can walk right up and knock.
ripley		But they don't know that.  They're probably looking for other ways to get in.  That'll take them awhile.
hudson		Maybe we got 'em demoralized.
hicks		 I want you two walking the perimeter. I know we're all in strung out shape but stay frosty and alert. We've got to stop any entries before they get out of hand.
hicks		How long since you slept? Twenty-four hours?
ripley		 They'll get us.
hicks		Maybe.  Maybe not.
ripley		Hicks, I'm not going to wind up like those others.  You'll take care of it won't you, it if comes to that?
hicks		If it comes to that, I'll do us both.  Let's see that it doesn't Here, I'd like to introduce you to a close personal friend of mine.
hicks		M-41A 10mm pulse-rifle, over and under with a 30mm pump-action grenade launcher.
ripley		What do I do?
hicks		Just pull it in real right.  It will kick some.  When the counter here heads zero, hit this...
hicks		Just let it drop right out.  Get the other one in quick.  Just slap it in hard, it likes abuse. Now, pull the bolt.
hicks		You're ready again.
ripley		What's this?
hicks		Well, that's the grenade launcher ...you probably don't want to mess with that.
ripley		Look, you started this.  Now show me everything.  I can handle myself.
hicks		Yeah.  I've noticed.
ripley		How do you feel?
gorman		All right, I guess.  One hell of a hangover.  Look, Ripley... I...
ripley		Forget it.
gorman		You still want to kill me?
vasquez		 It won't be necessary.
ripley		There, there.  Sssshh.  It's all right.
bishop		 Now, if I did it right...
female voice		Attention.  Attention.  Automatic fueling operations have begun. Please extinguish all smoking materials.
ripley		 Newt.  Newt, wake up.
newt		Wah...?  Where are...?
ripley		 Sssh.  Don't move.  We're in trouble.
ripley		 Hey...hey!
ripley		Hicks!  Hicks!
hicks		 He's at the up-link tower.
burke		 Excellent.
newt		Mommy...mommmyyyyy...
newt		Mommy...I mean, Ripley...I'm scared.
ripley		I know, honey.  Me too.
hicks		Vasquez, Hudson, meet me in medical!  We got a fire!
hicks		The corner!  Ready?
hudson		Do it!
ripley		 Burke...it was Burke.
hudson		 I say we grease this rat-fuck son of a bitch right now!
hicks		 I don't get it.  It doesn't make any Goddamn sense.
ripley		He wanted an alien, only he couldn't get it back through quarantine.  But if we were impregnated ...whatever you call it...and then frozen for the trip back at just the right time...then nobody would know about the embryos we were carrying. We and Newt.
hicks		Wait a minute.  We'd know about it.
ripley		The only way it would work is if he sabotaged certain freezers on the trip back.  Then he could jettison the bodies and make up any story he liked.
hudson		Fuuuck!  He's dead.  You're dogmeat, pal.
burke		This is total paranoid delusion. It's pitiful.
ripley		 You know, Burke, I don't know which species is worse.  You don't see them screwing each other over for a fucking percentage.
hicks		 No offense.
ripley		Just find someplace to lock him up until it's time to --
ripley		They cut the power.
hudson		What do you mean, they cut the power?  How could they cut the power, man?  They're animals.
ripley		Newt!  Stay close.  Let's get some trackers going. Come on, get moving.  Gorman, watch Burke.
ripley		 Anything?
hudson		There's something.
hudson		It's inside the complex.
vasquez		 You're just reading me.
hudson		No.  No!  It ain't you.  They're inside.  Inside the perimeter. They're in here.
ripley		Hudson, stay cool.  Vasquez?
vasquez		 Hudson may be right.
hicks		 It's game time.
ripley		Get back here, both of you.  Fall back to Operations.
hudson		This signal's weird...must be some interference or something. There's movement all over the place...
ripley		 Just get back here!
hudson		Movement!  Signal's clean.
hudson		Range twenty meters.
ripley		 Seal the door.
hudson		Seventeen meters.
hicks		Let's get these things lit.
ripley		They learned.  They cut the power and avoided the guns.  They must have found another way in, something we missed.
hicks		We didn't miss anything.
hudson		Fifteen meters.
ripley		I don't know, an acid hole in a duct.  Something under the floors, not on the plans. I don't know!
hudson		Twelve meters.  Man, this is a big fucking signal.  Ten meters.
ripley		They're right on us.  Vasquez, how you doing?
hudson		Nine meters.  Eight.
ripley		Can't be.  That's inside the room!
hudson		It's readin' right.  Look!
hicks		Well you're not reading it right!
hudson		Six meters.  Five.  What the fu --
ripley		Medical!  Get to medical!
ripley		Burke!  Open the door!
newt		Look!
hudson		 Let's go!  Let's go!
hicks		Fuckin' A!
hicks		 Hold you fire!
ripley		 Locked.
hicks		Stand back.
gorman		You can't use those in here!
vasquez		Right.  Fire in the hole!
hicks		 Thanks a lot!  Now I can't hear shit.
vasquez		 What?
newt		Come on!  This way.
ripley		Stay behind me.
newt		Come on.  Crawl faster.
ripley		DO you know how to get to the landing field from here?
newt		Sure.  Go left.
newt		Go right.
hicks		 Bishop, you read me?  Come in, over.
bishop		 Yes, I read you.  Not very well...
bishop		 The ship is on its way.  ETA about sixteen minutes.  I've got my hands full flying... the weather's come up a bit.
hicks		All right, stand by there.  We're on out way.  Over.
ripley		Back.  Go back!
vasquez		 Losing fuel.
vasquez		 You always were an asshole, Gorman.
newt		This way.  Come on, we're almost there!
ripley		Newt, wait!
newt		Here!  Go up.
newt		Just up there --
newt		Riiiiipppleee --
ripley		Newt!
newt		 Mommy...where are you?
newt		 Moooommeeee...
ripley		 Hicks, get down here.  I need that locator.
ripley		 Newt!  Star wherever you are!
hicks		This way.  We're close...
newt		Here!  I'm here.  I'm here.
ripley		Climb down, honey.  We have to cut through this grate.
ripley		Newt!  Newt!
ripley		No!  Noooo!
hicks		 She's gone!  Let's go!
ripley		No!  No!  She's alive!  We have to --
hicks		All right!  She's alive.  I believe it.  But we gotta get moving!  Now!
ripley		Come on, you can make it. Almost there.
ripley		HOW MUCH TIME?
bishop		PLENTY!  TWENTY-SIX MINUTES!
ripley		WE'RE NOT LEAVING!
bishop		Ripley...
ripley		She's alive.  They brought her here and you know it.
bishop		In seventeen minutes this place will be a cloud of vapor the size of Nebraska.
ripley		Hicks, don't let him leave.
hicks		 We ain't going anywhere.
ripley		See you, Hicks.
hicks		Dwayne.  It's Dwayne.
ripley		Ellen.
hicks		 Don't be long, Ellen.
voice		Attention.  Emergency.  All personnel must evacuate immediately.  You now have fourteen minutes to reach minimum safe distance.
burke		Ripley...help me.  I can feel it...inside.  Oh, God...it's moving!  Oh gooood...
ripley		Here.
voice		You now have eleven minutes to reach minimum safe distance.
newt		 I knew you'd come.
ripley		Newt, I want you to hang on, now.  Hang on tight.
voice		You now have two minutes to reach minimum safe distance.
ripley		BISHOP!
ripley		 BISHOP!
ripley		 Close your eyes, baby.
voice		You now have thirty seconds to reach...
ripley		Punch it, Bishop!
ripley		It's okay, baby.  We made it.  It's over.
bishop		I gave him a shot, for the pain. We'll need to get a stretcher to cart him up to medical.
bishop		I'm sorry if I gave you a scare but that platform was just becoming too unstable...
bishop		I had to circle and hope things didn't get too rough to take you off.
ripley		You did okay, Bishop.
bishop		Well, thanks, I --
ripley		 Go!
ripley		Here!
ripley		Get away from her, you bitch!
ripley		 Come on!
bishop		Not bad for a human.
newt		 Mommy...Mommy?
ripley		Right here, baby.  Right here.
newt		Are we going to sleep now?
ripley		That's right.
newt		Can we dream?
ripley		Yes, honey.  I think we both can.
****Dialogues from script :all_about_steve.txt****

mary		Crap. The puzzle answers all run together.
mary		Four letter word for... vomit. She takes a deep breath to calm her nerves. it doesn't help.
mary		Not "barf". For sure not "barf". That's too easy. "Puke" is okay, but maybe a bit pedestrian ... I like "hurl". I do. I like the way it rolls off your tongue -- the word, I mean. But my all time favorite is none of those. She puts her head between her knees, tries to keep it together.
mary		Four letter word for vomit? S-P-E- W. Spew... Sp-ew. A door nearby opens but Mary doesn't budge. A POLICE OFFICER walks out. A 40ish female TEACHER pokes her head out the door, signals to Mary.
teacher		We're ready for you now. .
mary		Jesus help me.
teacher		Here's a treat, students. Our final guest for Career Day, Miss Mary Horowitz, is the crossword constructor for the Atlanta Citizen. You know the crossword puzzles you see every week in the newspaper? It's her job to create them. Isn't that fun? Mary stares at the Teacher, whispers.
mary		You weren't supposed to tell them.
teacher		Pardon me?
mary		I made a crossword puzzle to help them guess what my job is. You ruined it.
teacher		Oh, I'm so sorry.
teacher		Maybe you could tell them a bit about what your job is like? watche s hit
garbage		Mary drops thu p file out her the bottom She p lls u hearsed enthusiasm. bag, reads with re
mary		People do crossword puzzles all the time but they don't often think of the person who made all the words fit together, and who thought up the clues, and who made sure the little black squares at the top mirror the ones at the bottom. She pulls one of the crosswords out of the garbage can, holds it up, turns it upside down, forces a nervous smile.
mary		Crossword constructors usually have above average intelligence, with knowledge of just about every subject you can imagine. And it helps if they can spell. The card in Mary's hand reads "LAUGH". She laughs. Nobody else does. She looks at the cards again, instantly gets serious, sweeps her hand through the air.
mary		Imagine, for a moment, a world without crossword puzzles. A world- Mary notices one Kid with his hand up. It totally throws her off.
teacher		Daniel, you have a question?
daniel		You make a living doing that? Just making puzzles? The Atlanta Citizen only comes out on Fridays. One puzzle a week can't make you enough to live on. A LARGE KID in the front row pipes up.
large kid		How do you pay your rent?
mary		My parents -
daniel		You live with your parents? The Kids all laugh their asses off. Mary just stares at them.
large kid		Oh my God, how old are you? Still living at home! The kids all laugh some more. Mary's on the verge of panic.
teacher		Children! The Teacher shoots the Kids a warning look, then notices Mary hyperventilating.
teacher		Are you okay? Mary grasps for breath, struggles to speak.
mary		Water.
teacher		Water. Just hang on. The Teacher rushes out. The kids all stare at Mary.
mary		Yep, I live at home... She forces herself to get it together, totally faking it.
mary		But so do all of you, so there... And sure, I only create one crossword puzzle a week but I have deadlines, I have stress, I have demands on me so huge you would not believe. The newspaper business is hell. I mean it. Hell. Somebody's got to write about all the horrors that go on in this world.
mary		Me! My crossword puzzle is always good news. it enlightens. it r andma's entertains. It keeps your g mind alive so she remembers to send you five bucks on your birthday. Think about that as you lie in bed tonight picking your nose and crying yourself to sleep. I know I will. The Kids just stare at her. She leans against the teacher's desk, tries to look relaxed but fails miserably.
mary		My job matters, you know. In media circles I am, as the Dutch say, geliefd. That means I have plenty of friends. Hoards, in fact. Scads even. The kids aren't buying it.
large kid		You're a freak. The kids all nod in agreement. Mary's frozen, devastated. The Teacher rushes back into the room with a cup of water, hands it over. Mary sips it like communion wine. Half of it runs down her chin. Mary looks at the Teacher, fakes a smile.
mary		That's a pretty blouse. The Teacher smiles back. Awkward.
mary		Twelve letter phrase for smashing success! She heads down the walkway toward the bus stop.
mary		As one would say in old Paris... Coup de maitre! A CUSTODIAN cleaning the school yard looks up. Mary keeps on talking - now to him.
mary		It means "master stroke", even though the direct translation is actually "master blow"... Leave it to the French to pass off an unpleasant slave activity as an everyday expression. The Custodian doesn't know what the hell she's talking about. Mary continues on to the bus stop.
mary		I sometimes suffer from benign positional vertigo. Could you please not drive until I'm - f He ignores her, starts driving. Mary struggles toward the back o f the bus, grabbing g goes.
mary		Excuse me... pardonnez-moi... begnadiyen sie mich... She lurches for an empty seat and just about dislodges her shoulder on the center pole. Finally settled, she peeks under her sweater at the shoulder damage.
mary		Hello hematoma. She smiles at an angry ELDERLY LADY sitting across from her. The lady gives her the "don't talk to me" glare, then stares out the window. Mary fidgets in her seat.
mary		Hi Betty. Betty just rings up the papers.
mary		Did you see the review of "Hairspray" in the Journal yesterday? They used the word "spectacular" -- always a good sign. Maybe you'd like to go see it with rne? I have a coupon for five dollars off. Betty shoves the newspapers back across the counter, points at them, then speaks in barely recognizable English.
betty		Nine dollar twenty. Mary fishes in her bag for money.
mary		We could bring your dad if you want. I don't think the show is ageist. That means he won't feel like a loser for being old. As she takes her time paying, Mr. Takihashi madly gestures about Mary holding up the line. Betty barks at her.
betty		Pecha kucha! Do Itta! Betty takes Mary's money, waves her on and helps the next customer.
mary		So no then? That's a no? Betty ignores her. Mary waits, loads the newspapers into her bag.
angus		Where the hell is he?
steve		Probably doing his nails. -- paper 40ish reporter HARTMAN HUGHES rushes to the van on his face. napkin tucked in his shirt collar, bread crumbs
hartman		What do you mean "the big one"? Terrorists, natural disaster, what?
angus		Pandemic. Hartman's eyes light up.
angus		Half of the Midwest and spreading. Nobody's safe. Steve tries on a gas mask.
hartman		Please let it be the bird flu.
steve		Bird flu is for pussies. This thing's unstoppable.
hartman		How's it spreading? Angus looks at Steve.
steve		Squirrels. Hartman can barely contain his excitement.
hartman		Oh my God, they're everywhere!
steve		Exactly.
hartman		Al Qaeda connection?
angus		Always a possibility.
steve		Who wishes he was in Iraq now?
hartman		Not me!. Hartman grabs a gas mask and rushes to the van's side mirror.
hartman		I need blush. No, wait. I'll go pasty. It'll look like I could be the first media victim. "Hartman Hughes, no such thing as too close to the story". Hartman looks back at Steve and Angus. They're just standing there, unable to keep a straight face. Hartman deflates.
hartman		Assholes! I knew it was too good to be true. He throws his gas mask down, storms off.
angus		Hartman, come on. Hartman gets in the elevator, hollers out to them.
hartman		I had a perfectly good bologna sandwich going on upstairs. Wasted! Angus and Steve watch the elevator door close, shrug it off.
steve		Next E-coli story breaks, he'll be fine.
mary		Crap.
mary		"Brilliant" is what they said. Never in the history of St. Margaret's Career Day have the children's brains been so inordinately stimulated as they were today by my presentation.
mary		"Inspired", the teacher told me.
mary		"Engrossing" one child exclaimed.
mary		I'm sure that's what he meant. And "ebullient"-
mary		Dad, some of the greatest orators of all time had their heads chopped off for their labors. I'm lucky to escape with a simple flesh wound. Mary hands over the last newspaper, heads out to the hallway. Her mother yells to her.
mary		I told you I'm not going.
mary		Mrs. Alchessi has gliomatosis cerebri.
mary		A brain tumor characterized by, among other things, dementia. She's nuts. Mary walks up the stairs.
mary		I'm normal. Silence from her parents. Mary marches back into the living room.
mary		In fact, I'm normalis extremes. That's the kind of normal that doesn't get more normal.
mary		I'll go. Mary bolts up the stairs to her room. Mr. and Mrs. Horowitz look at each other, surprised, happy.
mary		Carol, tonight I have a date. A blind one. Not the guy, I mean the situation. We are, as yet, unknown to one another... It's nerve wracking, I know. Try not to have a spontaneous epileptiform seizure. The doorbell rings. Mary freezes, listens for the muffled voices downstairs. She sits on the corner of her bed and breathes rapidly into a paper bag. There's a knock on her bedroom door. Mary folds up the bag, puts it in her pocket for later, then opens the door a crack. It's her mother.
mary		I'd rather not. Mrs. Horowitz opens the door wider, takes a look at Mary, looks like she's going to cry.
mary		i already did. Repeatedly.
mary		Please don't mean on the inside.
mary		Let's hope all that does it for him.
steve		Mary, hi. I'm Steve. She puts up a finger - "just a second". She turns around and runs back upstairs. Steve looks at Mrs. Horowitz, confused.
steve		Great. Thanks. She just stares at him and smiles.
mary		Gods. You may have noticed that I'm wearing clean socks. Translation: I'm really trying and thus should be amply rewarded. Thanks for your support. She gets up, has a second thought, gets back onto her knees.
mary		And by support I don't mean, you know - She hikes up her bra.
mary		I mean your assistance, your furtherance, your advocacy of my efforts to get out there and... do what I'm supposed to do. She concentrates hard, opens her eyes. Now she's ready.
steve		Ready? Mary nods a bunch of times.
steve		Mrs. Horowitz. Goodnight.  Sir.
steve		Sorry about this blind date thing. My mother -
mary		I never went to kindergarten! He looks at her, totally confused.
mary		They skipped me to the forth grade.
steve		Okay. She gets in the car, fastens her seatbelt. Steve hesitates then heads to the driver's side, gets in.
mary		I missed finger painting. He has no clue what to say.
steve		Sorry?
mary		Me too. She lunges for his lips but the seatbelt snaps her back inches short.
steve		Whoa! Undeterred by the whiplash, Mary undoes her seatbelt and tries again, this time making contact with Steve's lips. He's more than a little startled but kisses her back anyway, all the while straining to see the Horowitz house.
steve		Mary... uh, what about your mother? She straddles him and keeps kissing.
mary		You're not her type. And she's married.
steve		No, we're right in front of your house and... She undoes her sweater.
steve		And I have no problem with that whatsoever. She kisses his neck. He looks up with a "thank you, God".
mary		Steve?
steve		Mary.
mary		Is it Steven with a V or Stephen with a P-H?
mary		I thought so. There are almost a million Stevens with a V in the country, you know. It's much more popular than the P-H way, almost twice as popular in fact. I think it's the Brits who prefer the P-H. They love their P-H's over there. Not as much as they love their fish and chips but still, they love them. It was the media thing, you know, that's why our moms wanted us to get together. You work in the media, so do I. We really have to hand it to our moms, Steve, we do, and not just for raising us, or for thriving during a time when women painstakingly struggled for equality, but I mean we should hand it to them for being visionaries and predicting our all encompassing compatibility. We're professionally compatible, yes, but it's occurring to me at this particular moment that we're also sexually compatible, and I don't know if you noticed like I noticed but we're also both wearing blue. What are the chances of that? Actually, if I really think about it, the chances are probably pretty good. Blue is one of the most popular three colors, however, yours is- She leans forward and checks the fabric tag on the neck of his jacket. She can't quite read it. She reaches up and flips on the interior light. Steve's just about blinded. She grabs the tag, reads.
mary		Nylon. And mine... She grabs her own tag and reads it, just about elbowing Steve in the eye.
mary		Polyester! See? Both synthetic fibres! And the chances of that are much smaller than the chances of us just wearing blue. Steve looks at Mary - suddenly fully aware of her craziness.
mary		Do you like crosswords?
steve		Sure. She just about jumps out of her pants with excitement.
mary		Me too! And semantics, the study of the meaning of words? You love words, right?
steve		What's not to love.
mary		I know! She can hardly believe her good fortune. Her mind reels just as fast as her lips.
mary		Steve with a V, you know what we are? We're didymous. Two of a kind. Two rare earth elements brought together by Norns, that's Scandinavian for The Destinies. You want to make out for ten to fifteen minutes more then go get a six pack of Twinkies and Mountain Dew and stay up all night and talk? Steve is frozen. No escape - then it hits him. He jumps a bit, pulls out his cell phone.
steve		Sorry. I have to get this.
mary		I didn't hear it ring.
steve		Vibrate.
mary		I didn't feel it
steve		You didn't?  This is Steve... What? Really? Now? If I don't have a choice...
steve		Work. I have to go to... Boston. This happens all the time. You know how it is. Wherever news happens... Mary gets off of him, slides back into her seat, buttons her sweater.
mary		It's okay. When you get back we can have plenty of quality time.
steve		Sure. I'll call you. He leans over, opens her door.
mary		Steve, this has been a night to remember.
steve		No kidding. You certainly are - He searches for any word that will do. Mary jumps in.
mary		Normal.
steve		You read my mind. Never happier, she jumps out of the car. As he drives away, she pulls the paper bag out of her pocket, breathes into it.
mary		Mom, sometimes that's all you need to know he's the one! Mary smiles big, takes the rest of the stairs up two at a time. Mrs. Horowitz is about to follow her.
mary		Eleven letter word for serendipity. She screams into her pillow.
mary		The perfect answer: S-E-R-E-N-D-I-P- I-T-Y. Serendipity. Why would you ever need a better word than that? She sits up, grabs her notebook, starts to draw out a new crossword puzzle.
soloman		Let's split the gardening feature into two weeks. Keep them in suspense. He steps back, looks at the whole layout.
soloman		Looks good. How are we doing here?
soloman		Five minutes to spare. Look at that. The Assistant points to a blank corner of page 26. Soloman's surprised, and not particularly impressed.
soloman		Horowitz.
taxi driver		This is bullshit.
guy		Don't even bother, man. I don't know what the deal is, but it looks like all the answers are --
soloman		Steve? Mary sits and smiles.
soloman		Every single answer is "Steve"? Who the hell is Steve anyway? No wait, I don't care, but I do care that you pissed off our readers. Mary's smile falls a bit.
soloman		I thought you knew better than to pull something like this. It's unprofessional, it's -- to him. He's too frustrated, the words aren't coming
mary		Romantic?
soloman		No!
mary		Creativo? That's Italian for "creative".
soloman		No.
mary		How about -
soloman		Mary. We're letting you go.
mary		Oh. up her Kroger She looks like she's going to cry. She picks bag, fidgets.
mary		Maybe I could make it up to you by doing a fishing themed crossword. I know how you love the piscatology. Soloman shakes his head -- it's done. Mary hesitates then finally gets up.
mary		Okay. I'll just give you some time then. We'll talk next week.
payroll clerk		She forgot her severance.
assistant		Don't you mean "Steverance"? They both laugh.
the		waiting for her. She sits down beside him. He holds up Atlanta Citizen crossword.
mary		Indeed.
mary		Finished with the Times? She goes to take the paper. He stops her.
mary		How do you think? She looks at him -- worry all over his face. She hesitates for a moment then sucks it up.
mary		Because if you're thinking that they loved it, that they thought it was imaginative and bold and evocative... you would be right.
mary		He works a lot, you know. Travels all the time. 'Tis possible he has not yet espied it. She picks up the crossword, admires it.
mary		But when he does, I'm sure he'll say, "that Mary Horowitz... is a catch. Where oh where has she been all my empty life? From here onward my life will be divided into 'before I met Mary' and 'after I met Mary' with the second part being far superior. I am lonely no more. The missing letter in my puzzle has at last been found."
mary		I'm not.
angus		We're going to hit rush. We'll have to take the second flight. Exec. Producer DAN CORBITT walks in, heads straight for his desk.
corbitt		You're set. KDFW's on site now. Angus and Steve start to get up.
corbitt		Hang on. They sit. Corbitt grabs the remote control, turns the TV on.
corbitt		Anybody want to tell me about this? He fast forwards through footage of Hartman reporting from a greenhouse. Corbitt slows it to normal speed, mutes it. They watch as Hartman interviews an attractive female BOTANIST holding a test tube with a seedling in it. Hartman keeps pointing to the seedling - which happens to be right in front of the Botanist's generous breasts. The camera gets closer and closer - each time it pulls away Hartman points to the seedling again to force the camera in close - basically turning the piece into a giant boob-fest.
angus		Take a look at those... plants. Corbitt pauses it on the worst shot, looks at Steve.
corbitt		We can't use this. Hartman fakes disgust.
hartman		Of course not. Nice camera work, Stevie. Steve glares at Hartman. Corbitt points at the frozen shot on the TV screen, looks at Steve.
corbitt		You want to go back to the Weather Channel, try that again. Corbitt checks his watch, points them out the door.
corbitt		Get out of here. Don't embarrass me in Dallas. Hartman, Angus and Steve walk out. Steve nods to Hartman - thanks asshole. In the hallway, Steve's cell phone rings. He answers it.
steve		What?... Mom, let me call you back.
steve		What page? He finds Mary's crossword. He looks at it closely, totally confused. It takes him more than a second to get it. He laughs -- then suddenly reality sets in.
steve		Jesus.
mary		Four letter word for am I going to wait my whole life for Steve to call? She suddenly stops writing.
mary		Nope. She flails out of the tub like a salmon heading upstream, grabs a towel barely big enough to cover her. Without any effort to dry off, she runs out of the bathroom.
mary		Ow ow ouch. She gets off the banister, slops the rest of the way down the stairs, jumps into the doorway of the living room.
mary		The news is Steve's life! It's not just what he does, it's who he is, imbedded deep down in his polymer of nucleotides. I should be out there by his side. That's what girlfriends do, isn't it? Let him concentrate on his work. I'll concentrate on the relationship. It won't be easy, I know, but neither is quantum physics or... the Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle or... paper mache, but I've managed to do fine with those, haven't I? She looks at her parents. They sit at a table playing bridge with MR. and MRS. HANCOCK.
mary		Top of the evening. Mr. Hancock checks out Mary's bare legs as she stands in a puddle of bath water. Mrs. Hancock lifts her husband's chin, snaps him out of it.
mary		Exactly! And all I have to do is go to him, be near him, and do my best to radiate... me. Mr. Horowitz doesn't like the sound of this.
mary		Wherever news happens, Dad. Wherever news happens.
mary		Abe, Catherine, I'm off. I don't know where I'm going - The Greyhound Bus DRIVER hollers from behind her.
driver		Dallas.
mary		Geographically yes, I know. Figuratively, philosophically, spiritually, much less so. My entire life is before me. The world is my ostrea edulis... That means the edible kind of oyster.
mary		Mom, two handles, two handles, they both hold stuff, what's the difference? Mrs. Horowitz goes to explain, gives up.
mary		Disrespect. Do you mean unmannerly, tactless, vulgar? Because he's a straight man, Dad, and some things can't be helped. But if you mean inconsiderate to me, contemptuous toward me, insulting, irreverent, uncivil -
driver		Let's go already! She steps up one more step, yells out to her parents and the
mary		I don't know when I'll be back but I do know this- The door shuts in her face.
mary		 I'm not coming back alone.
hartman		Paula, what started out as a routine rehearsal here at the Dallas Medieval Times turned deadly when an employee allegedly turned on his fellow performers. Twenty- four hours later, at least thirty employees are still being held hostage by the assailant, their lives hanging in the balance. He listens to his earpiece, nods.
hartman		The castle you see behind me is one of eight medieval Times dinner theatre restaurants. Guests who cross the drawbridge enjoy a medieval style feast while watching the main attraction: knights engaging in a battle of strength and skill. The restaurant promises "fun, feasting and fighting" but it appears that this time, fun was in short supply. A few feet away, Angus frantically takes notes as he talks to a MAINTENANCE WORKER, then slips a piece of paper to Hartman.
hartman		Paula, devastating news just in. We have one confirmed death - an Andalusian - a purebred Spanish horse. One of many that perform in the show, and the first innocent victim of a rogue knight's rage... He takes a moment to fake compose himself, barely getting the words out.
hartman		At times like this, I like to think there's a heaven just for horses. A rolling meadow, lush grasses, unlimited supply of... those things horses like to lick - or is that cows? Nevertheless, a beautiful, peaceful place. He turns and looks toward to the Medieval Times.
hartman		May you long roam in that heaven, noble horse - Angus hands him another note. Hartman scans it, instantly kills the fake anguish.
hartman		But not quite yet. We're the first to report, the horse is not dead, Paula. Not dead. The horse is alive and well after having merely fainted, as it was trained to do for the show. One happy, blessed miracle...
hartman		Dammit, Angus. Get it a bit closer to right before you hand it to me. Josh moves in, removes Hartman's mic.
steve		But then we wouldn't have heard about horse heaven. Josh and Angus laugh.
hartman		It's that kind of genius that won me the Southeast Idaho Christian Family Coalition's Journalist of the Year award, you ingrates.
mary		Omaha... Einstein... cholera... grenade... Bach... oui... potbelly... Oreo. The man drops the crossword, glares at her.
mary		Sorry. She looks away, starts biting her nails, then spots a sign on the freeway, calls-out to the Driver and anybody else who will listen.
mary		Bessemer, Alabama! Named after Sir Henry Bessemer, a Brit. Guess what he did? Perfected the way steel is made, of course.
mary		You know what else is in Bessemer? The city, I mean? Hitler's typewriter. It's crazy, I know. That guy was such an asshole. The Driver's eyes glaze over. Please let this and.
driver		We'll just take five minutes here. He steps off the bus. Mary turns to the man next to her.
mary		Can you watch my stuff? He glares at her -- you have got to be kidding. Mary grabs her backpack and Kroger bag and steps off the bus.
hartman		 Perhaps the greatest obstacle the hostage negotiators face is the suspect's refusal to communicate using modern day technology. In keeping with his role as a medieval knight, he's insisting on an eleventh century messenger to deliver all communication. The screen splits with a female news ANCHOR.
anchor		What are we talking about here, Hartman? Carrier pigeons?
mary		Homing pigeons. A few of the Diners overhear.
hartman		Actually, homing pigeons. The Diners look at Mary.
mary		Carrier pigeons, despite their name, are more or less useless when it comes to actually carrying anything. Homing pigeons are better for messenger work... The Diners lose interest. Mary catches the eye of a WANDERER at the end of the counter. He's hanging on her every word.
mary		You know who used them all the time? Genghis Khan. Loved the pigeons, scared to death of pooches though. The Wanderer just stares at her.
mary		You know, dogs, canines, de honden? Still nothing. She looks back at the TV.
anchor		Have the negotiators located any homing pigeons? Where do you even get them in this day and age?
hartman		You can buy them on the internet for twenty-five bucks a pop. Mary looks at the Diners, smiles, points to the TV.
mary		My boyfriend is probably holding that camera right now. The Diners ignore her and just eat their pie. Mary realizes the time, runs out of the rest stop.
mary		Crap! Crap, crap, crap! She looks down the road -- no sign of the bus anywhere. She takes her paper bag out of her pocket, breathes into it. A TRUCK DRIVER passes her with coffee in hand, on his way to his rig.
mary		Do you know when the next bus to Dallas goes through here?
truck driver		Can't say I do.
mary		I missed mine. She breathes double time into the paper bag. He takes pity on her.
truck driver		I'm headed that way. He points to his truck. Mary looks at the truck, looks at him, looks at the truck, thinks about it for a long time.
mary		You ever killed animals? He looks at her, surprised but amused.
truck driver		Road kill?
mary		Set a garbage can full of kittens on fire or anything like that? Now he's disturbed.
truck driver		No.
mary		Humans?
truck driver		Would I tell you if I did?
mary		Touche, sir. Touche. Mary thinks some more.
truck driver		Wait for the next bus if that suits you. He climbs into the truck. Mary runs to catch up with him.
mary		Do you have a .light? Matches, Zippo, blow torch, et al?
truck driver		Afraid not.
mary		May I see your license? Why not. He pulls his license out of the visor, flashes it. Mary steps up and grabs it, looks at it closely.
mary		Norman James Durwood.
mary		Mary Magdalene Horowitz.
mary		Norm, if you're going to rape and murder me, you'll have to cut me up into a million chunks and scatter me all over four states, otherwise this appendage - She holds her arm up, shows him.
mary		Will lead homicide detectives right to you. She smiles at him warmly, puts the marker back in her bag.
mary		And you already told me you don't have a light to burn the flesh off. Norm can't believe this. Before he can say a word, Mary moves around to the passenger side, hops up into the truck. She notices some snacks on the dash.
mary		Moon Pies! Want to go halfsies? At a loss, Norm motions for Mary to help herself. As she unwraps a Pie, he reluctantly starts up the truck.
angus		Rebecca wants you to come for dinner when we're back home. Her cousin from Florida -
steve		Forget it.
angus		What?
steve		It's a set up.
angus		She's hot.
steve		I don't care. Never again. My mom set me up with this chick -
angus		You let you mother set you up? What the hell is wrong with you? There's a commotion in the distance. Every photographer on the grounds focuses on the castle. Reporters jump into position. Hartman touches up his make-up, roots through his bag. He yells out to Steve, Angus and Josh.
hartman		Which one of you bastards hid my bronzing shimmer? The police surrounding the castle take aim. Dead silence as the Medieval Times drawbridge lowers. A KNIGHT walks out, arms raised as high as his squeaking armor will allow, which is not very high, but high enough to get the point across -- Surrender.
mary		And my other rule about crossword puzzles is this. No pencils. Doing a crossword with a pencil is like screaming with your lips duct taped together. It's weak.
norm		Quiet time might be good right about now.
mary		Oh. She thinks about it, whispers.
mary		Do you mean quiet as in softly hushed like this? Or do you mean quiet, as in silent? He nods. Mary squeezes her lips together, holds them. It lasts for about a second.
mary		Norm?
norm		What?
mary		Thanks for not raping me.
norm		My pleasure.
mary		Eight letter word for "screwed". Mary crosses to the Medieval Times parking lot, steps over the police line blowing in the wind.
mary		F-A-S-T-E-N-E-D. Fastened.
mary		All roads lead to Oklahoma, Papa.
mary		My road, dad. My road. You don't commit to a relationship and then give up because you'd rather be at home curled up in front of the fireplace with a thesaurus. This is what people are supposed to do - go out on a limb for love. My limb just happens to be in Oklahoma. It's only 850 miles away from home. No big deal.
koco reporter		Eleven months ago, the child we've come to know as Baby Peggy was born with an extremely rare birth defect, a third leg. Shortly after the birth, her parents Misty and Bill Dunlevy separated. Now with joint custody, one parent wants the baby to keep the third leg, the other wants it gone... A few feet away, a female FOX NEWS REPORTER is on camera.
hartman		What if next time I say Baby Peggy is like the wishbone of her parents' dispute? Hartman acts out a wishbone pull. Steve's disgusted.
steve		Yeah, go ahead and suggest that. Corbitt will love it. Steve turns and looks toward the edge of the fenced off hospital grounds. Dozens of PROTESTORS are camped out - a sorry assortment of oddballs standing at the fence, waving their signs: "SPARE THE LEG", and "HONOR THE FATHER". Many of them carry drawings of a three legged baby wearing a halo. Steve braces himself and heads for the crowd. Half way across, he spots a loner walking from the parking lot. He's 35, chubby, his shirt buttoned one button off so it hangs lower on the left. This is HOWARD. In one hand: a pro-leg sign. In his other hand: a carton of chocolate milk. Howard stops to lick up the chocolate milk spilling all over his arm. Steve catches up with him.
steve		Mind if I ask you a few questions on camera?
howard		Me?
steve		How do you feel about what's going on here?
howard		I haven't made up my mind yet. Both parties have valid arguments.
steve		Please God, no. He looks for a place to hide but she's running ridiculously fast. It's too late. She's only a few feet away.
mary		Steve! She jumps into his arms but he's only got one arm free and isn't about to use it to catch her. She slides down his leg to the ground but quickly picks herself up.
mary		I'm here! Surprised?
steve		Surprised?
mary		Astounded, flabbergasted, bushwacked - He pulls Mary off to the side, away from everybody.
steve		What are you doing?
mary		Talking to you. And noticing how the Oklahoma climate agrees with your complexion.
steve		Tell me you didn't come all the way here just to see me.
mary		Of course not... I went to Dallas looking for you first. And you know why? Steve grabs his head. This is not happening.
mary		Because you're inimitable and I'm intransigent.
steve		No, we're not. I don't know what that means but trust me. We're so not.
mary		It means you're awesome and I'm unstoppable.
steve		Great. Listen, Mary, you seem like a nice girl, and the ten minutes we spent together were --
mary		Mind blowing. At a complete loss, he just goes along.
steve		Sure, but I'm working here. Working.
mary		I know. I'm just here to support you, show you I care, and also ask why you aren't following that guy pretending to be a nurse but obviously not wearing sterilizable, non-slip footwear. Steve looks toward the hospital, spots the Man.
mary		If I was Baby Peggy's dad, that's how I'd avoid the press too. Steve takes off running. Mary yells out to him.
mary		I'll be right here in case you want to make out later on! Steve looks back, a bunch of people stare. Mary waves to him then watches until he's out of sight. A SECURITY GUARD approaches her.
security guard		Miss, if you want to be here, you're going to have to stay behind the fence. Mary turns to see what he's pointing at - the growing crowd of protestors off in the distance. They wave their signs around, cry, sing and sway together, their painful song barely audible from afar.
protestors		Near, far, wherever you are, we believe that the leg should stay on... Mary watches, paralyzed with awe, like seeing herself in the mirror for the first time ever. At last, she has found her people.
elizabeth		I like your boots.
mary		Thanks. I found them in an alley. Elizabeth looks at the boots again, impressed. She stands up.
elizabeth		Are you pro-leg or anti-leg?
mary		Neither really.
elizabeth		This is the pro-leg group over here. We're supporting Baby Peggy's dad in his fight to save the baby's third leg. She points to the end of the fenced off area where only a few protestors hold anti-leg signs:"NORMAL LIFE FOR BABY PEGGY",
elizabeth		Those are the anti-leggers. They're all for the amputation.
mary		I'm just here because my boyfriend is working the story. He's with CNN, the world's news leader, the most trusted name in news, the place where more -
elizabeth		The pro-leggers have better snacks.
mary		I'm definitely pro-leg.
steve		She's on me what, thirty seconds after meeting me, and the chick will not shut up the whole time. I had to fake a work call, gave her the -
angus		 Wherever news goes...
steve		I think I'm in the clear, then she does this crossword - she works for the Citizen - she does this crossword all about me, and as if that's not crazy enough, she shows up here.
angus		Here?
steve		Over by the fence. Red boots. Can't miss her.
angus		Is she hot?
steve		Jesus, Angus. When a psychotic chick's swinging a machete at your throat, who cares if she's hot?
angus		I've been married to the same woman for seventeen years. I care.
steve		Crazy, man. The chick is cra-zy. Hartman sits up, totally awake and never happier. He points at Steve.
hartman		Priceless! This is priceless! Steve cringes.
steve		Hughes, don't. Don't even.
protestor wife		All we're saying is, wait until Baby Peggy can talk and ask her what she wants to do with the spare.
mary		Thanks, Bruno. He walks away. Mary takes a sip of the hot chocolate, burns her mouth.
mary		Crap. She grabs her tongue with her fingers. Hartman appears right in front of her.
hartman		M'lady. She's a bit stunned and star struck. He offers his hand.
hartman		Hartman Hughes. Mary lets go of her tongue, uses her saliva covered hand to shake his.
mary		Mary.
hartman		Mary'. Mary, Mary, Mary. He takes his hand back, discretely wipes it on his pants.
hartman		Steve told me you were beautiful. He was going on and on and on and on about it. I had to come see for myself. Great boots.
mary		Thank y- He puts an arm around her, pulls her away from the crowd.
hartman		Listen, Mary, I've been working with Steve for about a year now. The guy is like a brother to me. A YOUNG PROTESTOR recognizes Hartman.
young protestor		Hartman Hughes'. Without missing a step, Hartman grabs a pen from his pocket and autographs the guy's sign whether he wants it or not, then continues on with Mary.
hartman		Girls follow us around everywhere we go. Who do you think they're after? Hartman reflects on it, smiles.
hartman		Me, of course me, but every once in a while some of them try to land Steve. It's true. Sure he'll go for a few skanks here and there but it's all just a sad attempt to hide his fear. All he wants is to love but he's afraid of opening up, afraid of putting himself out there, afraid of somebody like you, Mary - yes you - afraid of you breaking his heart. Can you blame him? She's a bit stunned and confused by all of this.
mary		No?
hartman		No! Promise me this. Promise you'll stick around long enough to help him get over that fear. He tells you to go away, don't. He says he thinks you're crazy? You're not. He's crazy, Mary. Crazy not to let down his walls and tell you how he really feels. Can I count on you to hang in there no matter what?
mary		Of course. I don't want to interfere in his work but I just need to be here for him and - He grabs her, hugs her in so her words are all muffled - and yet she keeps talking.
hartman		Good girl. The SECURITY GUARD walks past, gestures that they should be behind the fence. Hartman holds up his press pass to get rid of the Guard, then lets go of Mary. He points her toward the protestors, starts backing away.
hartman		I'll tell Steve to come find you when we wrap for the day. What side are you on?
mary		Pro-leg. She shows him her button featuring a cartoon of a very happy three legged baby. Hartman laughs.
hartman		You might want to jump camps. No way they're going let that baby keep the third leg and live like a freak. Trust me. He waves and turns around, starts heading for the press camp. Mary calls out to him.
mary		She'd just be like the tree frogs. Hartman turns around. What?
mary		A trematode parasite causes polymely  in tree frogs. It happens all the time. In some ponds there's like a quarter of the tree frogs with extra legs. Totally natural. Hartman looks at her like she's a nutcase.
hartman		What's going on? Josh rushes to get the mic on Hartman.
josh		The parents of the kid got back together. Surgery's cancelled.
hartman		No amputation?
steve		Tell me you weren't talking to Mary.
hartman		Who?
steve		Go to hell, Hughes. scans it Angus hands Hartman the press release. Hartman quickly.
hartman		It's over? The kid keeps the leg.
angus		For now. Hartman checks his teeth in a hand mirror.
hartman		'Til she gets it caught in a car door.
koco reporter		With mere hours to spare, the Dunlevys reconciled, agreeing to halt surgery until Baby Peggy is old enough to decide for herself. Further down the row of reporters:
hartman		And like the noble tree frog whose extra leg is nothing if not natural, so Baby Peggy begins the rest of her three legged life... This is Hartman Hughes reporting live from Oklahoma City. Hartman pulls out his ear piece. Angus, Josh and Steve all look at him, a bit surprised.
steve		Tree frog? Where do you get this shit? Hartman taps the side of his head -- it's all up here.
hartman		A little thing called astutitude, my friends. Steve and Angus look at each other -- is that even a word?
mary		There you go, George. Just a little nasolacrimal duct cleaning. Nothing to be ashamed of. Elizabeth runs up to Mary, hugs her.
elizabeth		You see? When you sing loud enough and when your signs are big enough, people listen! Mary spots some of the news vans pulling away.
mary		Steve!
elizabeth		Go, go on. I'll watch your stuff. Mary drops her bags, runs toward the media camp.
mary		Steve! STEVE!
hartman		Angus, hold up.
steve		No, go. Fast. Hartman rolls down his window.
steve		Don't. Hartman sticks his head out the window.
steve		Hughes, I swear I'll kill you. Hartman waves to Mary to catch up. Angus sees her in the mirror as he drives.
angus		Is that her? She's hot.
steve		Angus, come on man, get me out of here.
angus		She's really hot.
steve		Who cares? Jesus, you guys - Angus hits the brakes. Steve hides behind the seat just as Mary catches up with the van.
hartman		Hi beautiful. Mary tries to get a look at Steve but can only see part of his back hunched over behind the seat.
mary		Steve? Are you okay? Is he okay? Angus leans over to her window.
angus		I don't think we've met. Angus. Mary shakes Angus' hand. He can't take his eyes off her.
hartman		Steve's not feeling well.
mary		Oh no.
hartman		I'm sure he'll be fine by the time we get to New Mexico.
angus		Your eyes are striking. Steve punches him through the seat. Mary's oblivious.
mary		Thank you.
hartman		Steve really wants you to follow us. It would mean a lot to him.
stays		Steve cringes, goes to speak up but stops himself and hidden.
hartman		He was going to go ask you himself but look at the poor bastard. So sick he can't even sit up straight.
mary		What if it's a viral zoonotic disease? He should see a doctor.
hartman		Exactly what I told him, but the only person he wants touching his infected flesh is you. Mary looks at Steve, worried.
mary		But wait, what if - up. Hartman grabs her face, squishes her lips to shut her
hartman		Hey now, we need you to be strong for him. Leachinan trial, Santa Fe, can you remember that? Mary nods, unable to speak.
hartman		We'll meet you there, God willing.
mary		Will you take care of him?
hartman		Like he's my own. She backs away from the window. Angus waves to her and starts driving.
angus		Nothing wrong with that one.
josh		Except for those boots.
steve		You're an asshole, Hughes. Hartman laughs.
mary		Elizabeth! I have to meet Steve at his next job, in New Mexico. He's sick, not as in rad, although he is that too, but more like unwell, infirm, perhaps barfy. Hopefully nothing serious but you never can be too sure and besides, healthy or not, he needs me.
elizabeth		Sign my book before you go? Elizabeth hands her the ratty hand decorated book and a pen.
mary		The trip's not too long, right through all kinds of interesting sites like, for example, El Santuario de Chimayo: The Lourdes of America. Know what that is? A sacred sand pit near a burrito stand. What could be better than that? Mary looks away from Elizabeth, fidgets a bit.
mary		Want to go? Unless you're busy, I mean. You probably have something better to do. Elizabeth thinks about it.
elizabeth		Not really. Mary is stunned. She takes a minute to realize it's real, gets excited. From behind her:
elizabeth		Mary, have you met Howard? Mary shakes her head. Howard offers his hand. It's got dried chocolate milk all over it. She takes it.
elizabeth		Mary, Howard. Howard, Mary. Mary, Howard's got a car, you know. He can drive us. Mary looks at him, thinks about it.
mary		What kind of car do you have?
howard		Plymouth Colt.
mary		What year?
howard		Eighty-nine. Mary quickly scans her memory.
mary		Replace the recalled seat belts?
howard		Yes. Mary thinks about it, smiles.
mary		Let's grab souvenirs! Elizabeth and Howard each pick up a Baby Peggy sign off the ground. Mary grabs as many as she can hold -- way, way too many. A bunch of them slide off but she perseveres.
howard		You can have that. I have more.
mary		Thanks. Mary puts the apple in her Kroger bag.
mary		Howard, if you get sleepy and want to trade off driving for a while, just wake me up and I'll take over.
mary		Persimmon. AKA, the mabolo, the date-plum, the velvet apple. Genus: Diospyros.
hartman		But the octogenarian Leachman may not have been as innocent as her representatives claimed, at least according to the evidence found at the murder scene. Hartman reads from his notes.
hartman		Whips, hot wax, bamboo skewers, a spanking bench, and perhaps most damaging, a henna tattoo across Ms. Leachman's chest that read "Mrs. Juan Carlos Velasquez".
howard		Guilty or not? They all think about it. A greasy haired Shaman CLYDE steps up behind them.
clyde		Everybody deserves the benefit of the doubt. He looks at Mary, smiles.
clyde		Everybody. As he joins the Leachman fans, Mary thinks about it.
mary		Be has a point.
elizabeth		Yay! I love Cloris Leachman.
howard		Who doesn't?
mexican mourners		jMuerte! iMuerte! iMuerte!
mary		I have to go find Steve. How do I look? Unwashed hair, bed head, and there's a chunk of a Twinkie caked onto Mary's ear. Elizabeth picks the Twinkie off, smooths down Mary's hair.
elizabeth		Perfect.
mary		I'll be back. Save me a sign! And if Cloris comes out, tell her I loved her in "My Little Pony: The Movie". Mary runs off as Howard and Elizabeth join the crowd of fans.
hartman		Hi gorgeous. What'd you do to your hair?
mary		Slept on it in the car. Where's Steve? Is he okay?
hartman		Never better. Come in and wait. He'll be back soon.
hartman		You all know Mary? Steve's girlfriend? Mary shakes hands around the table, greets them all in their native tongues.
mary		Hello... Bonjour... Hola... Jolly afternoon... She gets to Angus. He kisses her hand.
angus		My dear, sit. He shoves the BBC guy out of the way to make room for Mary next to him. Vince shuffles the cards.
vince		Mary, you in?
mary		Poker? Technically I'm familiar but I've never actually played. With people, I mean.
spanish journalist		She's in. Doug throws in some cash as Vince starts to deal.
mary		"There are few things that are so unpardonably neglected in our country as poker." Guess who said that one. She looks around the table. The guys, except Angus, are starting to lose their patience.
mary		Mark Twain. And you know what else-
mary		Sorry. Mary looks at her cards, thinks about it for way too long, then grabs a handful of coins from her Kroger bag, slaps them on the table.
mary		Send it, ladies! Steve steps into the tent, spots Mary, turns to run back out.
hartman		Don't go, Steve! Look who's here. Mary jumps up - just about knocks the table over, then sustains a number of injuries trying to leap over chairs. At last she makes it to Steve, hugs him.
mary		Thank God you're okay!
to		He holds her back at arm's length, looks at her, goes speak then stops himself, pulls her outside the tent.
steve		You have to stop stalking me.
mary		I'm not. It's more like picking travel destinations based on where you happen to be working.
steve		Stalking.
mary		Hartman told me you wanted me here. Now that I am, what better opportunity for us to get to know each other better.
steve		This is crazy.
mary		Hartman said you'd say that.
steve		Go home, Mary.
mary		And he said you'd say that too. It's just your fear talking. Steve just about loses it.
steve		He's not my friend, he's not your friend. He's just an asshole who thinks it's fun to string you along and make my life hell. He yells toward the tent.
steve		Hughes! Get out here!
mary		You know how sometimes you see a pinguid  guy with an attractive girl and you think how the heck did he pull that off? People won't think that when they look at us. We're perfectly matched. She can hardly contain her excitement.
hartman		For the hundredth time, Steve, no, I am not interested in a threesome with you and your new girlfriend. Steve points to Mary.
steve		Tell her the truth. About all the crap you told her.
hartman		Okay. Fine. Hartman goes to Mary, grabs her hand.
hartman		Everything I said about Steve, about his feelings for you, his hopes, his dreams, his fears, his unexplainable odor, forget about it. Forget everything I said. None of it was true. Mary's stunned, devastated. She looks like she's going to cry. Hartman and Steve look at each other - what now? Hartman shoves him forward. Steve reluctantly puts a comforting hand on her shoulder.
hartman		Because nothing I said comes close to the enormity of Steve's real feelings for you!
hartman		It's a love that defies words! Steve jumps him. Hartman fights back. Mary's horrified.
mary		Stop it, you guys! Stop! "Victory attained by violence is tantamount to a defeat, for it is momentary." You know who said that? Gandhi. And me. Just now. The fight continues. Mary half covers her eyes.
vince		Nice one.
spanish journalist		I'm going to go with Hughes on this one.
vince		Come on, the guy wears makeup. The guys all start pulling out cash to place bets. Mary spots the cash changing hands.
mary		No! This isn't about money! It's about courage, love, honor and all things virtuous and pure. Steve, kick him in the leberknoedel! Hartman looks up at her, hurt. The distraction costs him. Steve knees him then follows with a jab to his face.
journalists		Ohhhh! Hartman drops to his knees, tries to pull himself together.
steve		Tell her!
hartman		Okay, alright. Hartman wipes his lip, looks up at Mary.
hartman		Mary, millions of people believe what I tell them every night. Why shouldn't you? Steve dives at him. Hartman swings and gets him right in the nose. One of their cell phones ring, then another, then all the guys' phones go off.
angus		Verdict's in. They all rush off to the court house, leaving a stunned Mary standing alone.
mary		He fought for me. Happiest moment of her life.
bbc journalist		After a devastating eight months, Leachman at last vindicated despite overwhelming evidence against her. Six more cameras down, the French Reporter.
hartman		And as she left the court room today a free woman, the cheers of her devoted fans carrying her forward -
mary		Please! Somebody help him! Apply a vasoconstrictor, a nasal tampon, anything! At the absolute least, direct pressure and a clean tissue! Steve puts the camera back in place. Hartman recovers fast.
hartman		As you can see, Cloris Leachman's fans have become surprisingly violent despite her victory here today. Add this to the list of the most dangerous locations for journalists. Iraq, Somalia, Lebanon, Sri Lanka... and just about any place Cloris Leachman fans gather. Hartman wipes blood from his lip.
hartman		Hartman Hughes putting his life at risk to report live from Santa Fe, New Mexico. They cut. Hartman grabs a hand mirror, points to his face, yells out to Steve.
hartman		This is my gift, understand, my instrument. Makes no difference if you're walking around looking like Quasimodo. Ignoring Hartman, Steve walks over to Angus.
steve		How long do you figure until - Steve's phone rings. He cringes, answers it.
corbitt		Who the hell was that?
steve		This girl. She's been following me... She's not my girlfriend... He listens, clenches his teeth, hands the phone to Angus. As Angus listens, Steve grabs his equipment, waits in dread. Angus hangs up the phone, hands it back to Steve.
steve		I'm done?
angus		Consider yourself temporarily saved by the storm. It's worse than they thought. We've got to move. Steve grabs his equipment. They start walking.
angus		He'll probably fire you after.
steve		Any luck, the storm will kill me first.
clyde		Shhhh.
mary		What? I didn't -
clyde		Shhhh. He puts his hands on the sides of her head. Mary's confused and a bit freaked out.
clyde		In here. So loud. Always thinking, thinking, thinking. Mary goes to speak, stops herself. Clyde keeps his hands still on her head, looks into her eyes.
clyde		You already found what you're looking for. Mary's eyes soften and she's suddenly calm. A moment of peace. Suddenly, Mary spots Hartman, Steve and Angus rush past. She breaks away from Clyde, rushes along the fence to catch up.
mary		Wait! Steve! Hartman spots her.
hartman		Sorry, darling, we're on to the next story.
mary		No, wait! Attendee! She runs to the end of the fence, jumps it, runs after them.
steve		Considering you probably just cost me my job, maybe you don't want to talk to me right now.
mary		But I do! If you're in trouble because of me I can fix it, I can explain to your boss. He or she probably just doesn't understand our relationship.
steve		We don't have a relationship.
mary		Sure we do, it's just in the pupa stage right now.
steve		Mary, go home! She looks at him, hurt.
steve		Go home. He jumps in the CNN truck as Angus starts it up. Mary looks around, helpless.
mary		Six letter word for "over my lifeless, rigormortic and maggot infested, i.e. dead, body am I giving up now"... D-O-G-G- motherfucking-E-D. Dogged. She gets out her Chapstick, liberally applies it, dabs a bit on her temples as well.
mary		Normally I don't condone swearing. I think it's something people do when they don't have the vocabulary to express themselves properly, but even I, with my plenitudinous vocab, must admit -- every once in a while, it's okay to get a bit peppery -
mary		I got him in trouble, Dad. I have to go find him and make it right. There's three places they could be headed. She pulls a note pad out of her pocket, looks it over.
mary		For each story, I've worked out an equation of potential human casualties, estimated property damage, availability of endlessly repeatable images, with bonus points for anything involving reporters in galoshes. There's no doubt in my mind. They're heading to the storm in Galveston.
mary		Ridiculous? Mom! How many times did you propose to dad?
mary		I rest my case! If you gave up the first time dad said no then I wouldn't exist. Telling me to give up so soon on my potential husband- to-be, birth father of my twelve future children and adoptive father of my gerbil Carol -- you might as well be saying that you wish you had given up too and that you never married dad and that I'd never been born. Is that what you're saying?
mary		Sure you don't want to come along?
elizabeth		I wish, but I only left enough cat food out for two days. I'll miss you guys! Elizabeth hugs them both, jumps on the bus. Howard and Mary watch as she struggles to her seat with all the signs.
howard		This storm could be bad. Sure you want to drive into it?
mary		How bad could it be?
cnn meteorologist		Hurricane Lorraine, currently rated category four, expected to hit landfall by tomorrow evening. Making the situation even more frightening, that area of Texas currently in the midst of its worst tornado season in history. Tornado images appear on the map.
cnn meteorologist		And here's where it gets interesting. A black swarm graphic appears as well.
cnn meteorologist		Add the looming cicada migration to the mix and no one knows just how devastating this storm could be.
ktft meteorologist		Tornadocane.
kprc anchor		Tornadocane.
klug meteorologist		God really hates us now.
hartman		 And this time, the warnings were hard to ignore. One Galvestonian told us "tornados, we can handle. Hurricanes we can handle. Bugs we can handle. Put 'em all together and that's a storm I don't need to see". A wise man indeed. Something off to the side catches Hartman's eye -- it's a picnic table blowing down the street.
hartman		Oooh! Get that! Steve gets the shot then pretends to make adjustments to his camera while he discretely scans the area, on the lookout for Mary.
mary		And when I met Steve, I knew right away we had a lot in common. We're both in the media, we both love crosswords, we both love words. We both felt this unexplainable connection, no matter how much his instinct might be to fight it. That's okay. We just have to get to know each other better, that's all. She uses the wipe on her face, gets a bit on her lip and the taste is awful. She rolls down the window, closes her eyes and gently sticks her face out to rinse with rain water. The car hits a flooded patch of the road. A wave of mud washes up and smacks Mary right in the face.
mary		Crap. She starts the handy wipe bath all over again. A nervous Howard speaks up.
howard		I saw Steve talking to you... He wasn't very nice. Mary makes herself busy putting the handy wipe in her Kroger bag then looks out the window.
mary		If there's one thing I learned from crossword puzzles it's that you can't give up.
mary		I have to give it one more try. I have to fix the mess I made with his work, then maybe he and I -- For the first time, she doesn't seem so sure. Howard notices.
howard		You know what my favorite part of doing crosswords is? When you know something you didn't think you knew. Mary thinks about it, then turns back to looking out the window.
mary		Me too.
hartman		Paula, this pier was closed to the public twenty-four hours ago, and for good reason. Steve inches a bit closer for the shot, his footing unstable. Josh moves in and hangs on to Steve to keep him steady.
hartman		As I stand here, I can actually feel the structure moving under my feet. The only thing between me and the limitless depths of the sea is this two-by-four railing that - The railing flies off. Hartman drops to his knees and crawls to the other railing then hangs on for dear life. Steve and Josh struggle to hang on to the camera and each other.
hartman		And Paula I have to tell you, not only has my hearing been permanently damaged by the sheer force of the rain hitting my eardrums, but at this point, I'm beginning to wonder if I'll even make it out alive. He raises his head up for the big finish, gets hammered by the wind and rain.
hartman		This is Hartman Hughes, reporting live from Galveston, Texas. Steve and Josh start backing up off the pier with Hartman crawling behind them. Steve yells back to him.
steve		You had to get the pier shot. Had to. Just about got us all killed. Happy? Hartman points in the water, yells.
steve		You're such an asshole. Steve walks off the pier mad as hell.
hartman		Come on, that was funny. You have to admit... Stevie?
howard		Hang on. He hits the brakes, starts backing up as quickly as possible. Mary looks ahead -- sees what looks like a tornado up ahead.
mary		Oh my God. Howard backs under an overpass, points to a protected area up the cement embankment.
howard		We'll just have to wait for this to pass, then we'll keep going. It'll be okay. They look down to the road just in time to see Howard's car picked up and blown right through the underpass, landing on its side in a ditch fifty yards away.
mary		Crap!
girl's voice		Steve... Oh Steve... Steve awakens in panic.
steve		Who the hell are you? What are you doing?
mexican boy		They pay me twenty dollar to wake you. Steve looks outside the van, sees Doug and Hartman laughing hard. The Kid scurries out of the van. Angus gets in, opens up his laptop.
steve		You seen her?
angus		She's too smart to come here during this. Steve looks around like he's crazy.
steve		No, she's here somewhere. I can feel it.
mary		I spy with my little eye a chemical element from group two of the periodic table.
howard		Barium... I spy with my little
mary		Cobalt. Mary points to a steel belted tire on the ground, lays back and shuts her eyes. Howard takes something out of his - it's a pocket, puts it in her hand. Mary looks at it shrivelled, sculpted apple head. She smiles, hardly able to keep her eyes open.
mary		Mother Teresa.
howard		My best seller. I'm an apple sculptor. She's quiet for once. Howard watches her drift off.
howard		I went to school for physics but got bored. Now I just make these and sell them on appleheadsrule.com. I was going to give that one to my girlfriend in Bangor but I can make her another one. She'd probably prefer a Stephen Hawking one anyway. Science is her life. Not like my girlfriend in Tacoma. She's really into Jesus. Same as my other girlfriend in Duluth. He waits for a response - nothing.
howard		Maybe I'll meet them in person one day. They're just so far away and I don't get out much, not farther than the apple orchard or the post office anyway.
mary		But you're out now. He's a bit surprised she was listening.
howard		I saw the people on TV fighting for Baby Peggy. It wasn't far from my house, and the people there looked nice enough, so I went. I thought I had everything I needed at home but then I thought, maybe there's more.
mary		Maybe there is.
howard		Can I tell you something? Mary nods.
howard		I like your eyeballs.
mary		They're fuscous, that means -
howard		Brownish gray. I know. They both smile.
mary		You know what I'd call this?
howard		Quagmire?
mary		Imbroglio, Howard. That means we're screwed.
corbitt		Storm's over. What else is happening? The Exec shrugs and yawns.
businessman		Sloooowww news day.
first reporter		Fire, a car chase, anything?
second reporter		There is nothing going on, man. Nada.
teacher		 Who's ready for some fun? The deaf kids start running down the hill, straight for the petting zoo.
cnn anchor		An abandoned mine shaft on the outskirts of Eunice, Louisiana. The children, apparently all hearing impaired, enjoying a trip' to the county fair, blissfully unaware of the danger that lay ahead.
hartman		Tornadocane my ass. Where the hell were the cicadas? Retards in a mine shaft, now that's a story.
steve		They're deaf, asshole. They spot Mary and Howard up ahead in the ditch, next to the car on its side.
hartman		Look, it's your girlfriend.
steve		We're not stopping. Hartman grabs a piece of paper, writes fast.
angus		We can't just leave them.
steve		Highway patrol's down here every hour. It's not like they'll rot in the ditch. As they get closer, Hartman rolls down his window, folds up the piece of paper.
steve		What the hell are you doing?
hartman		Getting some fresh air. It helps my pores. Steve tries to grab the paper.
steve		Hughes!
hartman		Yes, Steven?
steve		You're not telling her where we're going.
hartman		Aren't I?
angus		Christ, you two. You'll get us killed. Angus leans into the front seat, tries to steady the steering wheel.
steve		Asshole! Hartman laughs, rubs his arm in pain.
mary		"Eunice, Louisiana. Please..." She stops reading, looks a bit uneasy. Howard steps forward, grabs the note.
howard		"Please meet..." He looks at Mary, disgusted, continues reading.
howard		M-E-A-T. "Please meat me there. XO Steve".
mary		See? He needs me, if only to help with his spelling.
howard		No kidding. She rushes to the car, Howard joins her. They push the car ey with everything they have, it tips back onto its wheels. Th jump in the car and start it up.
hartman		And what went through your mind when you realized they were gone? The Teacher just bawls. Hartman turns to the camera.
hartman		Grief too strong for words. That's the best way to describe this tragic, tragic scene. One minute, a merry day at the fair. The next minute, helpless babes savagely sucked into the menacing abyss. The Teacher bawls even harder. Hartman gives her a "there there" then continues talking to camera.
hartman		And here's how hopeless the rescue looks at this moment. The earth surrounding hole is far too perilous for anybody to approach on foot. Moving heavy rescue equipment in too close could mean death for the rescuers as well. Its cold down there, wet, dark, probably a few snakes and rats moving around.
hartman		To some, a simple crane. To the trapped, innocent, special children -- the answer to their prayers. The cable lowering the bucket jerks and stops. The crowd gasps. Hartman stays on camera.
hartman		Or is it? The cable jerks and begins moving again.
hartman		Only time will tell. Through the crowd, Steve sees a WOMAN who looks like Mary from the back. fie freezes, then realizes it's not her. Total relief.
mary		Please let those kids be okay.
rescuer		Hey! Buddy! Back it up. Steve backs up, refocuses on the hole as the cable rises. - it's one of the Kids Finally, a smiling little face appears being carried up by the Fireman.
fireman		They're all okay! The rescuers cheer. The Teachers bawl.
hartman		Elation here in Louisiana but the danger, far from over as rescuers bring these children up one grubby little face at a time. Hartman looks off to the side, holds up a finger like he's trying not to cry. He signals Steve to cut.
hartman		Remind me next time to mention Jesus. Still on the lookout for Mary, Steve's not even listening.
mary		George, Lydia! What's going on? Lydia hugs her.
fireman		That's the last of them! As he hands the kid to safety, the cable jerks. He gets out of the basket just in time before the whole thing - basket and cable -- snaps off and drops into the hole.
hartman		A happy ending that's left parents across this country wondering - how can I keep my family safe from abandoned mines? Are there abandoned mines in my backyard? Is my child's school built on top of an abandoned mine? Steve spots Mary, running toward him.
steve		No, no, no.
hartman		And how, oh how, can these death traps be avoided? Mary drops right into the abandoned mine.
cnn anchor		Mary Horowitz. A painful high school photo of Mary appears on the screen. Bad hair, bad make-up, ridiculously large smile, unfortunate frilly chemise.
news anchor		Mary Horowitz.
steve		Mrs. Horowitz.
steve		You and your husband stay put, Mrs. Horowitz.
steve		She better be. Hartman looks away, guilty.
mary		Eight letter word for... my life has come to this. There's a bit of shuffling around in the dark.
mary		Not destiny, that's only seven letters. Not fortuity - that sounds more like when good things happen to people like finding a quarter in the sofa or something. I mean the not so great stuff that's bound to befall some people more than others. Fate's nasty cousin, I mean. Suddenly Mary's face lights up with her mini keychain flashlight.
mary		F-O-R-E-D-0-0-M. Foredoom.
mary		Crap.
rescue supervisor		The new equipment is going to take a while. Let's try and find out what kind of shape our victim's in.
rescuer		Can we lower a phone down in there?
rescue supervisor		Let's keep it simple. Get me a flashlight, a piece of paper and a pencil. An unenthusiastic Hartman steps in front of the camera, the Rescuers in the shot behind him. Doug films. Hartman goes to speak but can't seem to summon his on air personality.
hartman		Behind inc... Oh what's the point? Hartman walks away moping.
angus		Corbitt wants you to go on air to talk about Mary. An interview with the boyfriend.
steve		I'm not her boyfriend!
angus		Close enough. Come on, we need this. Hartman steps up, listens in.
angus		Fox has already got their hands on everything but her panty size.
hartman		Fox scooped us? Our Mary? The bastards. Steve glares at him.
anchor		That has to be bad news for Mary Horowitz, wouldn't you say?
slick journalist		Mary Horowitz, described by those who know her as smart, talkative, very much the girl next door, that is, if the girl next door has a genius level IQ. She's worked for eleven years as the crossword constructor for the Atlanta Citizen and lives right here with her parents. Mr. Horowitz opens the door an is swarmed by Reporters. The Slick Journalist gets right in there.
slick journalist		Can you comment on the rumors that Mary's fall into the mine was a suicide attempt?
mary		I am not afraid. I am not fearful, pusillanimous, nor am I affrighted. Suddenly in the light - a face. Mary screams her head off. The face doesn't budge - it's a LITTLE DEAF GIRL.
mary		Oh my God, they forgot one! You scared the crap out of me. The girl just stares at her.
mary		I'm sorry, can you hear me, I mean at all? Do you have sensorineural hearing loss or conductive? "Deaf people can do anything except hear." You know who said that? Doctor Jordan, first deaf President of Gallaudet U. Maybe you'll go there one day. That is, unless we perish down here. Mary smiles. The Little Deaf Girl just stares back.
young rescuer		What should we say?
rescue supervisor		Tell her help is on the way. We just need her to confirm she's conscious -- here, give me that. The Supervisor grabs the paper and pencil, scribbles the note, ties it to the flashlight. They look up to the thin nylon rope now in place of the snapped cable. The Rescue Supervisor signals for them to drop it. He attaches the flashlight/note, waves to the crane op. The crane swings over, lowers the rope into the hole.
mary		And then there's black lung disease, also a problem in coal mines. Chronic cough, breathlessness, cyanosis - that's where your skin turns purple -- There's a CLINK behind Mary. She turns her light onto the area, sees the flashlight and note hanging from the thin rope. Mary grabs the flashlight, turns it on, reads the note.
rescue supervisor		That's a good sign right there. The Young Rescuer grabs the note.
rescue supervisor		What's it say?
unfolds		The rescue team gathers around. The Young Rescuer the note, reads it slowly and loudly.
young rescuer		"I think you mean, am i conscious, not am I conscience."
rescue supervisor		Jesus Christ.
young rescuer		"Conscious means alert and awake. Conscience is your inner morality gauge, you know, the thing that stops you from doing bad things, e.g. killing, stealing, harming helpless animals, and whatnot."
rescue supervisor		Can we leave her down there? He motions for the Rescuer to continue.
young rescuer		"To answer your question, yes I am conscious. My leg is bleeding but I'll probably live."
rescue supervisor		Great.
young rescuer		"Yours truly, Mary Horowitz." The other rescuers start to disperse.
rescuer		"P.S. Did anybody lose a little deaf girl?"
rescuer		"I found one. She's fine... Other than not being able to hear, I mean."
nancy grace		They missed a child? They missed a child? Can't these people count? Thank goodness for this woman, this Mary Horowitz - let's bring up that picture of her again. The picture of Mary appears on the monitor.
nancy grace		We're looking at an American hero, folks. It it wasn't for Mary Horowitz, the child would have never been found.
steve		Thank Christ. Now if they can only get her out of there. Angus hangs up his phone.
angus		Corbitt wants you on in five. Steve sees he has no choice. He nods. Hartman puts an arm around him.
hartman		I'll be gentle.
rescue supervisor		We've got the whole country watching now, can't afford any more mistakes. The crane from Shreveport is a wash. We're looking at as much as sixteen hours to bring the other one in.
rescue supervisor		There's air coming in through the top.
rescue supervisor		Let's at least get some food and water down there. The rope we've got on there now will handle a small load -- if that damn crane holds. He looks up at the old crane, worried.
rescue supervisor		As fast as we can get them here.
elizabeth		Howard! She hugs him.
howard		She'll be okay. She will. Howard looks behind him at the ever growing crowd.
howard		All this. For her. He manages a sad smile.
waga cindy		No one will argue that the city of Atlanta has always been a breeding ground for heroes. Jimmy Carter, Hank Aaron, Ryan Seacrest and now... Mary Horowitz. As the country wonders about what would drive this woman to such an extraordinary act, we went straight to those closest to her.
waga cindy		Mary Horowitz, a hero who's devoted her life to caring for the sick and elderly. Clearly a woman with a higher purpose.
female reporter		Exactly like the boots worn by Mary Horowitz when she slipped into the mine. Were the boots responsible for the accident? The manufacturer refuses to comment. For now, the deadly footwear remains on store shelves, leaving consumers to pay the ultimate price.
mary		Rhinolith, that's the real word. Rhino is nose, lithos means stone. Nose stone. You know what that is? Snot.
scientist		I knew Mary Horowitz in college. She caught me trying to cheat off her physics midterm, lectured me for an hour and when she finally stopped talking I asked her out. She said no, said it was because I was, get this - hebetudinous. Can you believe? He walks away, bitter, gets back to work on NASA rockets.
researcher		We dated for a while but she ended it. Said she couldn't stand this - He points around 'to the library - you could hear a pin drop.
researcher		Whatever that means.
waga cindy		A heartbreaker, leaving behind a trail of devastation.
mary		And Archimedes, there's another one. He was into math, philosophy, all kinds of stuff, then one day he was working out an equation in the sand and somebody stabbed him. Crappy, I know.
hartman		Steve, tell us about Mary, your fiance struggling for her life at the bottom of the abandoned mine as we speak. Steve glares at him. Hartman motions for him to go on.
steve		Mary... she's smart, incredibly smart. She talks a lot. Never boring, I'll tell you that much. He thinks about her, gets lost in it.
steve		Mary Horowitz doesn't pretend to be anything she's not. She's passionate, beautiful, real... and she definitely doesn't deserve to be where she is now.
howard		They don't even know her.
elderly lady		No, but they know what it's like to be alone, to need a helping hand. That's a good enough reason to be here.
mary		Happenstance, I love that word too. And you know what else - Mary coughs. Before she has a chance to catch her breath, a rope with a small bag attached quickly drops next to her, the bag hitting the floor. Mary unties the bag and looks inside to find water and sandwiches.
mary		No dessert. Crappy. Did you know that the word dessert comes from an old French word that means "clear the table"? Sometimes I feel like dinner is just doing time so I can get to the point, and of course the point always involves sugar. Who needs - The Little Deaf Girl covers her ears, vocalizes as much as she's able.
mary		I know. She sits down.
mary		I know. She notices the Little Girl's shoes are soaked. Mary moves next to her, takes off her rubber boots and puts them on the Little Girl. Mary puts an arm around her, holds her close at - softly, her side, then speaks like she's a different person to herself, the Little Girl unable to read her lips.
mary		I'm not good at... silence. "Mary doesn't do quiet", that's how my grandmother always said it. "What's that hush?" she'd holler at a party. "It's Mary about to talk", then she'd laugh and laugh and laugh. Everybody would... But I knew something they didn't - that if you keep talking, if you keep on talking, you don't hear people telling you that you're different. You don't hear people saying they don't like you. And if you're talking, you just might not hear it when some kid... calls you a freak. Mary's eyes start to well.
mary		I just wanted to be normal, that's all. Steve said I was. She thinks about it, laughs a bit.
mary		I'm beginning to think newsmen can't entirely be trusted. She buttons up the Little Girl's sweater.
mary		The truth is normal is -- not me. She seems surprised she said it out loud. There's relief in it.
mary		My friends, the people I've met over the past week, they're not normal either. They're more interesting, more original, more real, more rare. She suddenly gets it, brightens up.
mary		That's where I fit. - and for She thinks about it, in silence. The sadness fades the first time, she's comfortably quiet. She smiles at the Little Deaf Girl. The Little Deaf Girl smiles back. And they sit -- Mary totally calm. Mary hears something in the distance - a gentle PLINK PLINK PLINK she couldn't have heard while talking. She picks up the flashlight, moves toward the noise. In a corner of the mine, a water drip hits on some old rusted mining tools, including two rusty vice grips. The Little Girl coughs. Mary looks back at her, concerned.
mary		Little Deaf Girl, it's time for us to go home.
elizabeth		What's taking so long?
cnn anchor		A tense night in Eunice, Louisiana. Hartman what can you tell us?
hartman		They've lowered food and water into the depths of this abandoned mine. The last task of this archaic crane that finally blew its motor. We've been told the new rescue equipment won't make it until daybreak. Until then, all we can do is wait, hope, and of course pray. There's a commotion at the rescue site. Doug zooms in.
rescue supervisor		Jesus Christ. Tell me she's not -
mary		After I got kicked out of Girl Scouts, while the other girls were learning how to sell cookies, I was at home reading the biography of Sir Edmund Hillary. Mary motions for the Little Deaf Girl to jump on piggyback. She jumps up onto Mary's back, still in the red rubber boots. Mary starts jugging up the rope, the vice grips and rope pieces acting like ladder steps. They start rising up slowly. Not an easy task. Mary struggles every step.
norm		Good for her. Good for her.
jim soloman		We're going to have to give her her job back. He shakes his head, laughs.
large kid		Did you start this and not bother finishing it? Do you know how much work goes into making these things? Honestly, Dad. The Kid grabs a pencil to finish the puzzle.
hartman		First interview is ours. Here comes our girl. Steve, you ready? Grab her arid kiss her then let me start with the questions. Doug focuses in on Steve. Hartman holds the crowd back so Mary can get to him. Mary runs toward them -- and keeps on running, right past Steve's open arms. She heads for her friends at the fence - Howard, Elizabeth, Carlos, George, Lydia, all of the other Protestors. She swan dives right into them. They catch her.
howard		You're okay.
mary		I am. Cameras go off all around them.
mary		In solving the puzzle of life there's one thing you must do. She points to the side of the road. The bus pulls over.
mary		Find somebody just as normal as you. Mary stands up, gets off the bus.
mary		if not a whole bunch. Howard, Elizabeth, George, Lydia, Carlos, Clyde, a few old Ladies, a bunch of other Protestors file off the bus. Mary keeps talking to the bus driver.
mary		And don't be a slave to your loins. Trust me on that one. Mary taps the side of her head.
mary		You need to let this be the boss of you. Cornprende ?
howard		That bus driver looked like Francis Galton. Did you see that?
mary		He's my favorite behavioral geneticist in the world. They continue on through an open yard.
howard		In retrospect, and I say this with some hesitation because I don't like to have actual regrets so I'll just say I'm beginning to perpend -
mary		Good one.
howard		I'm beginning to perpend whether or not eating three bags of caramel corn for lunch was the smartest thing to do. Honestly I'm this close to spewing... Mary reaches the end of the path and stops, waits for everybody else to catch up. They're in complete awe of the monstrous Georgian estate before them.
mary		My grandma left it to me. My parents won't stay here. And for me it was always too... quiet. She looks at her new friends.
mary		Not anymore. They head toward the house.
****Dialogues from script :almost_famous.txt****

elaine		Excuse me, I'm a teacher.  There is no word in The English Language -- "Xmas." It's either Merry Christmas... or Happy Holidays.
william		- so Livia -
elaine		-- killed everyone off so her son Tiberius could inherit the throne.  Just like Nixon.
anita's voice		Hey Mom!  I already ate.
elaine		You sure?  I'm making soy cutlets.
anita		I'm fine.  Already ate.
elaine		Wait.  You've been kissing.
anita		 No I haven't.
elaine		 Yes... yes, you have...
anita		No I haven't.
elaine		Yes you have.  I can tell.
anita		 You can't tell.
elaine		Not only can I tell, I know who it is. It's Darryl.
anita		 It's unfair that we can't listen to our music!
elaine		 Honey, it's all about drugs and promiscuous sex.
anita		Simon and Garfunkel is poetry!
elaine		Yes it's poetry.  It's the poetry of drugs and promiscuous sex.  Look at the picture on the cover...
anita		First it was butter, then sugar and white flour.  Bacon. Eggs, bologna, rock and roll, motorcycles.
elaine		That was an experiment.  But I understand -
anita		What else are you going to ban?
elaine		Honey, you want to rebel against knowledge.
anita		 We're like nobody else I know.
elaine		I'm a teacher.  Why can't I teach my own kids?  Use me.
anita		Darryl says you use knowledge to keep me down.  He says I'm a "yes" person and you're trying to raise us in a "no" environment!
elaine		 Well, clearly, "no" is a word Darryl doesn't hear much.
william		Mom --
elaine		Everything I say is wrong.
anita		I can't live here!  I hate you!  Even William hates you!
william		I don't hate her.
anita		 You don't even know the truth!
elaine		Sweetheart, don't be a drama queen.
anita		Feck  you!  All of you!
elaine		Hey!
william		I think she said "feck."
elaine		 What's the difference?
william		 Well.  The letter "u"...
voice		 Are you really in our grade?
william		Yeah.
tobin		Hey guys!  Check it out!  William doesn't have any pubes!
tobin		He's not a man, he's a little baby kid.  He Doesn't even get zits yet.
tobin		 Where are your pubes???!!
william		 I had 'em.  I shaved 'em off.
elaine		 Put on your seatbelt.   I don't want you flying through the windshield.
william		We got our annuals today --
elaine		 "Received" your annual.
william		 I look so much younger than everyone else.
elaine		Enjoy it while you can.
anita		Mom.  It's time.
elaine		 Can this wait until we get home?
anita		Mom, pull over.  Tell him the truth. Tell him how old he is.
elaine		 He knows how old he is.
anita		The other kids make fun of him because of How young he looks.  Nobody includes him.
william		They do?
elaine		What's a "Narc?"
anita		 A Narcotics Officer!
elaine		Well what's wrong with that?
william		 Aren't I?
elaine		 I also put you in first grade when you were five and never told you.
william		 So...  I'm... how old?
anita		You lied to him!  You make such a big deal about the truth and you lied!
elaine		 He never asked.
anita		What -- like he's going to ask if he's as old as he thinks he is?  Don't you realize, this is going to scar him forever?
elaine		Honey... sweetheart... don't be Cleopatra.  We have to be his mother and his Dad.
anita		You put too much pressure on him!
william		 How... old...
anita		And when he rebels in some strange and odd way, don't blame me.
william		... am I?
elaine		 I skipped you an extra grade.  You're eleven.
william		 ELEVEN?
elaine		So you skipped fifth grade.  There's too  much padding In the grades.  I taught elementary school.  5th grade - unnecessary.  Nothing happens in the 5th grade.  All Teachers know it, no one talks about it.
william		 E - leven.
elaine		And you skipped kindergarten because I taught it to you when you were four.
william		 This explains... so much...
anita		You've robbed him of an adolescence!
elaine		Adolescence is a marketing tool.
anita		He's got no "crowd"... no friends...
william		Okay!
anita		Honey, I know you were expecting puberty.  You're just going to have to shine it on for a while.
elaine		Who needs a "crowd?"  You're unique.  You're two years ahead of everybody.  Take those extra years and do what you want.  Go to Europe for a year!  Take a look around, see what you like!  Follow your dream! You'll still be the youngest lawyer in the country.  Your own great grandfather practiced law until he was 93.  Your dad was so proud of you.  He knew you were a pronominally accelerated child.
anita		What about me?
elaine		 You're rebellious and ungrateful of my love.
anita		Well, somebody's gotta be normal around here!
william		 Eleven.
anita		I want to play you a song that explains why I'm leaving, and try to listen.
elaine		We can't talk?  We have to listen to rock music?
william		Take good care of her in San Francisco, man.
elaine		How can she leave such a loving family?
anita		One day you'll be cool.
elaine		She'll be back.
anita		YEAHHHHH-HOOOOOOOO.
elaine		Maybe not soon...
lester bangs		What is this hippie station?!  Where's Iggy Pop?  Don't you have a copy of Raw Power?!
bangs		Found it!!
bangs		So you're the one who's been sending me those articles from your school newspaper -
william		I've been doing some stuff for a local underground paper, too.
bangs		What are you like the star of your school?
william		They hate me.
bangs		You'll meet them all again on their long journey to the middle.
william		I did?
bangs		Oh yeah.  It's over.
william		Over?
bangs		Over.  You got here just in time for the death rattle, the last gasp, the last grope.
william		Well.  At least I'm here for that.
bangs		What do you type on?
william		Smith-Corona Galaxis Deluxe.
bangs		You like the new Lou Reed?
william		 The early stuff.  The new stuff, he's trying to be Bowie, he should be himself.  I'm not a big Lou man.
bangs		Yeah, but if Bowie's doing Lou, and Lou's Doing Bowie, Lou's still doing Lou.
william		 If you like Lou.
bangs		Take drugs?
william		No.
bangs		Smart kid.  I used to do speed and sometimes Nyquil and stay up all night writing and writing, like 25 pages of dribble about, you know, the Guess Who, or Coltrane, just to write, you know, with the music blasting...
william		Me too.  The writing part...
bangs		Well, alright.  It's been nice to meet you.  I'll see you around.  Keep sending me your stuff.
william		Okay.  See you.
bangs		I can't stand here all day talking to my many fans.
bangs		-- so anyway, you're from San Diego and that's good.  Because once you go to L.A., you're gonna have friends like crazy but they'll be fake friends, they're gonna try to corrupt you.  The publicists!  The bands!  You got an honest face, they're gonna tell you everything.  But you CANNOT make friends with the rock stars.
william		... Industry... of... cool...
bangs		And that's what they want!  And it's happening right now.  I'm telling you, you're coming along at a very dangerous time for rock and roll.  The war is over.  They won.  99% of what passes for rock now... SILENCE is much more compelling.  It's over.  I think you should turn around and go back and be... a lawyer or something... but I can see from your face that you won't. I can pay you thirty-five bucks.  Gimme a thousand words on Black Sabbath.
william		 An assignment.
lester		Yeah.  And you should build your reputation on being honest... and unmerciful.
william		 Honest... unmerciful...
bangs		And if you get into a jam -- call me. I stay up late.
elaine		Look at this.  An entire generation of Cinderellas and there's no slipper coming.
william		You can drop me off here.
elaine		Black.  Sabbath.  Just remember - you wanted to be Atticus Finch in To Kill a Mockingbird.
william		All I have to do is listen.  That's what Lester Bangs said.
elaine		 I'll be waiting right here at eleven 'o clock sharp.  If you get lost, use the family whistle.
william		Hi.  I'm William Miller and I'm here from Creem Magazine to interview the band Black Sabbath.
scotty		Not on the list.
william		Sir, I'm a journalist, and here's a copy of the magazine.
scotty		You're not on the list.   Go to the top of the ramp with the girls!
william		 What-happens-after-I-go-to-the-top-of- the-ramp with-the-gi -
estrella		Who are you with?
william		 Me?  I'm with myself.
estrella		No, who are you with?  What band?
william		I'm here to interview Black Sabbath.  I'm a journalist.  I'm not a... you know...
penny lane		... you're not a what?
william		 Oh... I'm just... not a... you know.
penny lane		Not a "what"?
william		 You know.  A "groupie."
estrella		Ohhh!
william		Sorry, I -
penny lane		We.  Are not.  "Groupies."
estrella		This is Penny Lane, man.  Show some respect.
william		-- sorry.
penny lane		"Groupies" sleep with rock stars because they want to be near someone famous. We are here because of the music.  We are Band Aids.
estrella		She used to run a school for Band Aids.
penny lane		We don't have intercourse with these guys.  We support the music.  We inspire the music.  We are here because of the music.
estrella		Marc Bolan broke her heart, man.  It's famous.
penny lane		It's a long story.  I'm retired now. I'm just visiting friends.
estrella		She was the one who changed everything. She said "no more sex, no more exploiting our bodies and hearts... "
william		Right.  Right.
estrella		"... just blow-jobs, and that's it."
william		Okay.  Well, see, now I get the difference.
polexia		 It's all happening.  It's all happening.
estrella		Polexia!!   Did you tell Sabbath we were going to be here?
polexia		I talked to Dick with Stillwater, I talked with Sabbath.  They're all dying to see us.   It's all happening.
penny lane		This is our journalist friend. Journalist Friend, meet Estrella Starr, and Polexia Aphrodisia. And you are --
william		William.
polexia		Here comes Sabbath!
estrella		Ozzy!!!  Tony!!!  It's us!!
polexia		 Okay.  I was with Ian Hunter all night at Rodney's Last night.  Wanna see his spoo?  I saved it in a baggie.
estrella		 I'm really happy he's doing so well.
penny		 Yeah.  I know he's such a talented guy.  I mean, look at him.  Who deserves it more?
polexia		 Nobody -- he's so sweet.
estrella		 Don't you just root for him, you know. To go that little distance between good and great?
penny		Wait.  That's not his.  I would know his.
sapphire		Does anybody remember laugh-tah?  Come and GET 'EM!
scotty		Oh no.  Not this one --
sapphire		 Who brought Opie?
penny		He's with us.
scotty		 He wasn't with you.
sapphire		 Are you going to turn this into a Thing?
scotty		All of you can wait outside!  Top of the ramp!
william		I don't want to cause a Thing.  I'll wait.
penny		 I'll go take care of this.
dick		Let us in, we're Stillwater!  We're on the show!!
william		 Hi, I'm a journalist.  I write for Creem Magazine.
jeff		The enemy!  A rock writer!
william		 I'd like to interview you or someone from the band.
dick		 I'm sorry but could you please fuck off?
william		Okay.  Okay.  I could do that.
jeff		You guys never listened to our records. You're all just frustrated musicians. Do you know what your magazine SAID about us?  What was it - "the singer's incessant cater walling distracts From an assault with no clear purpose."
larry		 That was Rolling Stone.
russell		Yeah.  Okay.  Fuck off anyway.  We play for fans, not critics.
william		Russell.  Jeff.  Ed.   Larry.  Way to go.
russell		 Well don't stop there.
jeff		Yeah, come back here!!  Keep going!
scotty		Not this one.
russell		He's with us.
scotty		He's not with you.  He's not with them. He's not on the list.  He's not coming in.  And this is my arena.  And furthermore -
russell		Red Dog!
red dog		We're playing here tomorrow night.
jeff		 This is Red Dog, the Allman Brothers Band's number one roadie.
russell		How're the guys?
red dog		Havin a ball, man.  When we have a party, we have an Allman Brothers Band party.  Everybody boogies.  Everybody gets off.  It's family, man.  We all got These now.  Dicky and Gregg send you their love.
russell		... and it's okay, because rock and roll is a LIFESTYLE...  and a way of thinking and it's not about money and "popularity!"
jeff		Some money would be nice.
russell		- but it's a voice that says here I am... and FUCK YOU if you can't understand me.
jeff		And the chicks are great.
russell		But we didn't do it for that!  We are here because we needed to fuckin be here, not just 'cause we needed to away from Troy, Michigan, WHICH WE DID... but what it all comes down to is that thing. The Indefinable Thing, when people catch something from your music, the thing you put into it.  I'm talking about... what am I talking about?
william		 The buzz?
russell		THE BUZZ!   And the chicks, the whatever, is an off-shoot of THE BUZZ. And like -- you saying you liked "Fever Dog?"   That is the fucking buzz, man. All we get are these fucking old-ass interviewers who don't understand, don't LISTEN, don't appreciate why we are here, which is the fuckin' BUZZ.
jeff		The next album will be even better. More texture.
russell		But... it's not what you put in, is it?  It's what you leave out.  Listen to... listen to Marvin Gaye...
william		 I know that, "woo."
russell		 That's what you remember.  The silly things, the little things... there's only one, and it makes the song.  It's what you leave out.  That's rock and roll.
jeff		 We used to talk more about this stuff.
russell		Okay.  See, this is maybe the most honest we've ever been in an interview because you know our music.  You're the first press guy we've made friends with.  We don't normally talk like this to them.  And you're supposed to be The Enemy!  What are you - 18?
william		Yeah.
russell		There you go.  Still young enough to be honest.
dick		 Ten minutes 'till showtime, anyone who isn't in the band -- out!
penny lane		I found you a pass.
william		 I've only done two, but you know. He's number one.
penny lane		You're learning.  They're much more fun on the way up.
william		Eighteen.
penny lane		Me too.  How old are we really?
william		Seventeen.
penny lane		Me too.
penny lane		Me too.  Isn't it funny?  The truth just sounds Different.
penny lane		You want to know how old I really am?
william		 No.
penny lane		It's a long story.
william		 Right.  Right.
penny lane		We live in the same city.  We should be friends.
russell		The Enemy!
william		Russell, this is Penny Lane.
penny lane		 Pleasure.
russell		Penny Lane?  Like the song, right?
penny lane		Have we met?
william		Well, I guess you've... you've met.
dick		Penny Lane!  God's gift to rock and roll!!  You're back!  Marc Bolan.  Please.
russell		Come on, let's go.  Both of you.
russell		- get in the huddle.
dick		From Troy, Michigan.  Please welcome --  Stillwater.
russell		 So.  You want to come up to L.A., we'll be at the "Riot House" all week.
william		"The Riot House?"
russell		The Continental Hyatt House!  It's on Sunset Strip.
william		 Right.  Right.
dick		Let's blow this burg!
russell		 Well tell your friend Miss Penny Lane to Call Me.  Tell her "It ain't California without her.  We want her around like last summer."   Say it like that.
william		Got it.
russell		 Oh, I'm under the name - Harry Houdini.
jeff		 The Enemy!!  Yeah!!    Come to L.A., we'll take some more.
william		Later Jeff!  See you, Dick.  Larry. Ed.  Mick, Gregg, Red Dog, Scully, Frosty, Estrella, The Wheel!
william		PENNY!
penny		 Hey.  Hey.  Be cool.
william		You just missed Russell!  He says he's at the "Riot House" all week and to call him.  He's under the name Harry Houdini. Do you know about the "Riot House?"
penny lane		I think I've heard of it.
william		He had a message for you!  He said, "It's not California without you.  We want you around like last summer."  Actually he said "ain't."  "It ain't California - "
penny lane		I get the gist.
william		How well do you guys know each other?
penny lane		Call me if you need a rescue.  We live in the same city.
william		I think I live in a different world.
penny		Speaking of the world.  I've made a decision.  I'm going to live in Morocco for one year. I need a new crowd.
william		Yes.
penny		It's a plan.  You've got to call me.
william		Okay.
penny		It's all happening.
william		It's all happening.
william		Hey Darryl.
darryl		Hey.
william		Yeah.  She and Mom are still sorta... I'd say "not speaking," but I don't know if they ever did.
darryl		Your sister.  A stewardess.  The things your sister and I did inside these four walls...
william		That's okay.  I don't want to know. It's my room now.
darryl		We flew the friendly skies -
william		Okay -
darryl		I don't want to put you in the middle of anything.  We don't have to talk about it.
william		No.
darryl		You seem cooler.
william		Yeah.  I'm thinking about going to Morocco.
darryl		Lemme know if you need a little help with your Mom.
william		A little might not be enough.
darryl		She still freaks me out.
william		 Yeah -
darryl		She's famous.
william		Listen -
darryl		Go ahead and do what you were doing. I just wanna hang in here for a moment.
william		Cool.  Alright.
darryl		Okay, man.
william		Okay, man.
elaine		I worry about the drunk drivers.
william		Mom.  I'm 15.  Right?
elaine		Yes, you're 15. "And here's that money I owed you."
william		I thought it was pretty good.
elaine		Keep the small bills on the outside. And call me if anyone gets drunk.
william		I will call you if anyone anywhere gets drunk.
elaine		Good.
william		 And don't take drugs.
elaine		 Ha ha.  Very funny.  See -- sense of humor.  Have fun at the dance.  I'm glad you're making friends.
william		Mom?
elaine		Yeah -
william		 Stay.
elaine		Oh... okay.
william		I-love-you-bye.
penny lane		The Continental Hyatt House.  Also known as The Riot House.  Every band stays here, all the ones that matter.  The Who.  Zeppelin. Alice.  Bowie.  English bands.  American bands.  We all know each other.  Twenty- four hour room service.  Like us, they were outsiders.  They were so outside, they're inside, and insiders never even knew it, because they're outsiders and they are inside a place outsiders will never be.  And why are we even talking about it?  If you're really an insider, you're never gonna say it. You know what I mean?
william		 Yeah.  Yes.
penny		And we're not gonna hang out with Russell.  You can, but not me.
william		What is it with you and Russell?
penny lane		It's all happening.  And I'm about to use you as protection.
penny lane		 These guys are with Alice Cooper.  I'm going to pretend I don't know them.
penny lane		I'm just showing my very dear, very wonderful friend around.  He's a very important writer - he knows Lester Bangs.  I'm responsible for his moral conduct while he's abroad.
penny lane		I'm retired.  And don't argue with me!
penny lane		 Have we met?
penny		Please.  I throw the little ones back.
polexia		 Ian Hunter is a fucking asshole!
william		Polexia!
polexia		Opie!!!
ric		It's all happening.   I just saw them on the seventh floor!  Mr. Jimmy Page... Mr. John Paul Jones...  Mr. Robert Plant signed my shirt in the elevator!!  Five minutes ago, he touched this pen.  Please don't smear it.  And Bonzo's gotta new motorcycle in the hotel!
penny		Ric is a Zeppelin fan.
william		Yeah, I picked that up.
penny		He tours with them, but not "with" them.
ric		They're on the 12th floor, but there's guards there!  So you gotta go to the tenth floor and go up the back steps.
penny lane		This is my very dear, very close, very wonderful friend William Miller, he is very close with Lester Bangs.
ric		It's all happening!!  See you in Cleveland!
penny lane		I'm retired!  Doesn't anybody believe me!?
william		Harry Houdini, please.
penny lane		Okay.  Time to put on the lampshade.
russell		 Alright.
william		 Alright.
penny lane		 Oh, the hell with it.
polexia		 Act One, in which she pretends she doesn't care about him.
william		 We've got to stop them.
polexia		Stop them?  You were her excuse for coming here.
penny		I need ice!
polexia		I just worry about people using her. You know?  'Cause she brings out the good side in everybody else, but what do they do for her?  Life kills me. Do you have any pot?
william		Not on me.
polexia		Do you smoke?
william		No.  But I... I grow it.  I grow it.
polexia		You're funny.  You know, if you were only taller, English, rich, a guitar- player and older...
william		I'd be someone else.
polexia		Yeah.  Good point.
penny		 How does it end?
russell		What?
penny		You know - the story about the girl who dumps the guy who has an ex-ex wife -- the one we don't talk about -- and gets a hundred... okay, five letters from him, and then doesn't even leave a pass in San Diego.  Wake up!  I'm retired and I never believed you anyway. You're too talented and too good-looking to be trusted and everybody knows it.
russell		 You're retired like Frank Sinatra is retired.
penny		 Damn.
russell		Come to Arizona.
penny		Never.
russell		We leave Thursday morning.  9 AM.  And pack light this time.  Jesus.
william		This is he.
ben		Crazy.  William, this is Ben Fong- Torres.  I'm the music editor at Rolling Stone Magazine.  We've got a copy of your stories from the San Diego Door. This is the same William Miller?
william		Yes it is.
ben		 Voice of God, howling dogs, the spirit of rock And roll... this is good solid stuff.
william		 Thanks... thanks.
ben		You should be writing for us.  Any ideas?
william		 How about Stillwater?
ben		Crazy.  New album... their third... starting to do something.
william		 Sounds good.
ben		We can only pay -- lemme see, three- thousand words -- seven hundred dollars.
william		 Yes.
ben		What college --
elaine		Honey, I need you to do that thing that fixes the garbage disposal --
ben		Well, I know how my lady gets when I don't Snap to it -
william		Crazy.
ben		Crazy!  I'll let you go.  Call me at the San Francisco office tomorrow.
lester bangs		Beware Rolling Stone Magazine.  They will change your story, they'll re- write it and turn it into swill. Beware!!
william		But besides that, what would be wrong with it?
lester bangs		 Look.  Do the story.  It's a good break for ya.  But remember this --
william		 ... swill merchants...
lester bangs		Now.  What are you listening to?
william		 I need to talk to Mrs. Deegan, from Journalism.
elaine		Whatever it is, the answer is no.
elaine		 Honey, what are you doing here?
darryl		Moral support.
elaine		What's involved?
elaine		Is it time for me to say something?
elaine		No.
elaine		No.
elaine		 "Lo, that which I have feared has come upon me."
william		 "He who jealously guards his fears, quietly yearns to bring them about!"
elaine		 No.  I have raised him to be an honor student, which he is.  We have agreed on all our goals.  We raised him to be a lawyer, we moved here to be near the finest law school in the West.  Plus, he has finals coming up, and in one week he graduates with all his friends -
darryl		He's got no friends!!
william		Darryl.  Please.
william		Lady of the Jury.  I wish to disprove the prevailing false belief that rock music is based on drugs and sex.  True, perhaps at one time... but rock music is different now.  It is now performed by hard-working intellectuals, with... with blazing intellectual pursuits, and I am going to play for you a piece of music designed to show you that my thesis is correct.
elaine		This is going to be hell.
william		The song is based on the literature of Tolkien...  and it's mystical attempt to elevate humanity has been successful throughout the world...  this song will change your life.
elaine		What am I supposed to say?   You say it's Tolkien, fine.  They sound like nice kids.  Is it meant to elevate humanity?  "Sure, let's elevate humanity.  After we sell you drugs and sex."  All I have is my honesty.  That's what I believe, and that's what I know.  Oh.  Here's a nice ad.
dick		C'mon, Doris!  Darling Bus.  You can make it!
penny		Gotcha.
polexia		Do you have any pot?
william		No.  I'm a journalist.
polexia		Well, go do your job then.  You're on the road, man.  It's all happening!  Get in there.  Go talk to 'em!
william		 Russell.   Do you think we might be able to find some time to talk when we get to Phoenix?  I want to interview everyone separately... and I felt we'd start with you and me.
russell		Absolutely.
william		Because I've got a thing in a couple days.
russell		What.
william		 It's a... thing where... uhm... you go there to graduate.  School.
russell		 I never graduated.  And look what happened.  You're here interviewing me.
larry		How did you know I was thirsty?
penny		I may need to stay in your room tonight. Russell's in a bad mood.  He's very Bob Dylan in Don't Look Back today. He's trying to write.
polexia		 Want some?
william		No thanks.
elaine		Has William Miller arrived yet?  He hasn't.  Could you give him a message as soon as you see him? -
dick		Jeff, Tony... Keys... keys... keys... room list...  If it doesn't have a number on it, it ain't ours!
clerk		Is this Mr. Miller?  You have a message from Elaine.
william		Thanks.
clerk		 She's a handful.
william		I know.
sapphire		Finally, you're here!!  They kicked me out of my room!  Fuck Ozzy!
russell		Come by in a few minutes.  We'll do the interview.
jeff		I'm worried, man.
russell		Naw, we can trust him.  He's a fan.
jeff		But it's Rolling Stone.  He looks harmless, but he does represent the magazine that trashed Eric Clapton, broke up Cream, ripped Led Zeppelin, and wrote that lame story about the Allman Brothers Band that bummed Duane out before he died.  Don't forget the Rules.  This little shit is the Enemy. He writes what he sees.  But it would be cool to be on the cover.
russell		Leave it to me.  We'll get a good story.
jeff		Plus our girlfriends read this magazine and -  -- you know.
russell		You made your point.  I'll take to him.
penny		Can Sapphire stay in your room tonight? She had a big fight with Ozzy, and Polexia's not working out with Jeff Bebe.  Jeff Bebe has so much jealousy over Russell that he can't express.  Plus, he never slept last night.   You keep Sapphire and I'll stay with Russell.
william		Sure.  I'll take her.
polexia		Me too?
william		Sure.
william		All these people.  And they all live in Phoenix.
polexia		 Hi Dad!!  I can't talk long!  I'm here in Paris.  I'm staying in another Youth Hostel with no phone and no address for mail!!
william		 Alex.  Lowbatz.
sapphire		 I was the one who told him what to tattoo on his fingers, I was the one who made his shirts... I was there when his wife left him.
william		Charles.  C.  Swoop.
polexia		 I CAN SEE THE EIFFELL TOWER.  DO YOU KNOW THERE ARE 578 STEPS TO THE TOP?
william		Paul and Debbie Finger.
estrella		 Oh my God.  Simon Kirke of Bad Company is by the pool.
polexia		I GOTTA GO!  I'LL CALL FROM ROME!
estrella		Is anybody here as worried about Penny and Russell as I am?
polexia		 AND HAPPY BIRTHDAY TO MAGGIE!! I LOVE YOU!!
sapphire		 Ooo, watch out - whoever you look at when you say that - that's who you really mean.
russell		You know.  We should talk about what we don't talk about.
penny		We don't have to.
russell		No, I - I went to Catholic school.  I believe in guilt and... you know, if there's any to be had, I pretty much want to roll around in it.
penny		I don't believe in attachments.  No boundaries.  Just the music.
russell		I'm just saying, it's okay to talk about it.
penny		Leslie.
russell		 Alright - now we're talking.
penny		Leslie.  Leslie.  Leslie.  Lesssssslie. Leslie.  Leslie.  Leslie.  Leslie. Leslie.  Leslie.  Leslie.  Leslie. LESlie.  Leslie...
sapphire		Opie, can I order room service?
william		Okay.  You guys.  Wait.   Put down the phone, Polexia.  First, this is my room...
sapphire		Come on, you're a fan like us.  You're on our side of the line.
william		Second.  I'm not Opie.  Alright?  Opie is a little boy.  I'm here to do a job.  I am a professional.
william		Third!  ... this phone is a big, big deal.  In a minute, I have to go interview Russell.  Do not answer this phone if it rings.  I have family members with severe anxiety Problems.  She will not understand.
polexia		 But what if Ozzy calls Sapphire?   And I gave Jimmy Page this number.
estrella		Or a guy who looked like Jimmy Page.
william		Okay.   I have a solution.  Answer the phone.  But if anyone without an English accent is on the phone...  Just hang up.  Or say it's the wrong room.
william		SHOULD I COME BY LATER?
william		MAYBE THAT'S A GOOD THING!!
william		OKAY!
russell		GO AWAY!
william		OKAY!
penny		Don't worry.  Some to the radio interview.
william		No, I'm fine.  I'll just interview Jeff Bebe some more.
russell		 GO AWAY!
quince allen		The guitar of Russell Hammond.   "Fever Dog"...  The band is Stillwater.  Watch with your mind as they materialize.
estrella		William's room.
ben		Can I please speak to him?  This is Ben Fong-Torres at Rolling Stone.
estrella		I think I just messed up!
quince		Look at the dogs, wearing the funny hats.  Juggling just for you.  Freaks and family...
jeff		Well... not to get into a "me" thing... this is Jeff talking... but I did start the band, some time, actually, ago. This is back when we were the Jeff Bebe band, and I placed an ad in a magazine called Peaches looking for a guitarist and Russell Hammond answered.
quince		 Peaches.
jeff		I think he was a gift from God, actually.  Nobody plays like Russell Hammond.
russell		 Well, shit.  Thank you.
jeff		Everybody pays you compliments.  It's not my fucking job to kiss your fucking ass all the time.
russell		Well then who's fucking job is it? Because my ass is dying for a kiss. And I know yours is too.
dick		It's my fucking job.  You're all geniuses.  And let me just add this thought - smegma.
tony		Feces.
quince		The dong is called "Love Thing." Your mind is Starting to take effect. They're all here to see you swallow fire.  You scream soundlessly...  on the Night Circus.  It's Quince, with Stillwater.
russell		 See, this is what nobody writes about! The in-between times!   This!  Us! Right now!!
estrella		 Hello?
elaine		 May I speak with William please?
estrella		 He's not here.  I think he's in the bar with the Band.  They just got back from the radio station.  Is this Maryann with the pot?
elaine		No this isn't Maryann with the pot. This is Elaine... his Mother.
estrella		 I thought you were English.
elaine		Could you please give him a message? Could you tell him to call home immediately?  And could you also tell him -  I know what's going on.
estrella		Alright.  Okay.  But I'm just going to say this, and I'm going to stand by it.  This is the maid speaking, by the way.
william		 Now that you're starting to be successful, you had twenty-six years to write your first Album... and you'll have maybe four months for the second. Do you worry that the pressure of the business will get in the way of the original joy of making your music?  Or -
russell		Whoa!  I need three more beers and my guitar before I can answer that question. Let's take a walk.
russell		For a minute I thought you were actually a real journalist... which is... you know, it's great.  Shut that thing off, and I'll tell you the truth.
william		It's off.
russell		Look.  I trust you.  I'm going to lay this right on you.  Just make us look cool.
william		I will quote you warmly and accurately.
russell		That's what I'm worried about.  See - some of us have girlfriends back home. Some of us have wives.  And... some of the people you meet on the road are really amazing people...
william		Ohhhh.  Oh.  Yeah.
russell		You know what I mean?
william		Right.  Yeah.
russell		See, you're dangerous.  Most people are just waiting to talk, but you listen.
william		Right.  Right.
russell		So your question you asked me.  I think about It every fucking night.  The "business."  I hate it!  I grew up with these guys, okay?  I can't play all that I can play, I'm past these musicians, do you understand?
william		I do.
russell		The more popular we get, the more I can't walk on them, the bigger their houses get, the more pressure... you forget, man.  You forget what it was like to be real, to be a fan.  You can hear it in a lot of bands who've been successful - it doesn't sound like music anymore.  It sounds like... like lifestyle maintenance.  I used to be able to hear the sounds of the world.  Everything, to me, used to sound like music.  Everything.  Now I don't hear it.   You know what I'm trying to say?
william		 Yeah.
russell		Man, it feels good to say this stuff out loud.  But what am I doing?  I'm telling secrets to the one guy you don't tell secrets to.
william		 No, that's okay.  We'll do the interview tomorrow.
russell		This is good.  So there's the "friend" and then there's the "interview guy."
william		Yeah.
russell		So tonight it's "friend".... and when we wake up tomorrow - "interview guy." We'll figure it out as we go, buddy.
william		Hey - for whatever it's worth - you guys are really good.
william		How would you describe your role in Stillwater?  What is the chemical that you add to the chemistry?
larry		I'm the bass-player.
william		 Right.  And when you take that away... what would be missing?  Stylistically? What chemical?
larry		 The bass?
dick		Good evening Phoenix.  From Troy, Michigan.  Please welcome, Stillwater.
dick		Get in, get in!!
promoter		Are you the manager of this band?
dick		That, and more.  Get in!
promoter		You didn't even play a full set!
dick		Your shoddy stage set-up almost killed our guitarist!
promoter		You trashed the dressing room - you didn't play your thirty-five minutes. You didn't fulfill your contract -
dick		Everybody in!  Get in the bus!
promoter		I'll report you to every promoter in the country!  I'm gonna talk to Frank Barcelona!
dick		YOU DON'T FUCK WITH MY BAND'S SAFETY!
promoter		I hope you have a good lawyer.
dick		I AM A LAWYER!
promoter		LOCK THE GATE ON 'EM!
penny		Don't worry.  It's happened to all the greats.  Thank God you didn't hold the mike stand with both hands, you'd still be holding it.  This is a good thing. It's a good, good, good thing.
estrella		I forgot to tell you!  Your mom says to call home immediately.  She says she knows what's going on!  See you guys in Topeka!  I'll catch a ride with Sabbath!
dick		 Wanna buy a gate?
william		What did it feel like to be electrocuted?
russell		It burns.  It feels like a dose of lead shooting through your body... and then you see God, and he says, "How bad do you want to be legendary?" And god damnit.  I let go.  Rock and roll.
penny		Give that to me.
william		What will our names be?
penny		What do you think of Russell?
william		I like him.
penny		You're coming to Cleveland, right?
william		Cleveland, Ohio?  Oh no no no.  I gotta get my interview with Russell before Greenville.  And you've got to help me.  Okay?  Friends... remember?
penny		You should give him a break.  There are real problems in the band.   Off the record.
william		What problems?
penny		Okay.  I got it.  I think your name should be Spencer, and mine will be Jane.
william		I can't keep up with you.
penny		No one can.
william		What's your real name?
penny		Here's the thing about Russell.  He's my last project.  I only do this for a very few people.  And I think we should do it together - he is almost great. We've got to take him there.  You and me - we can do it.  Deal?  Because the other guys are good - but he could be great.  He's my last project.
william		What do you love about music?
jeff		Hey.
william		Hey.
william		I know.  I know.  I know.  I know.  Mom.  Mom... Mom.
william		Right now -- Topeka.  Then Greenville. Then home.
elaine		I guess I just miss you, and I don't understand why I've driven both my kids so far away from me.  By all practical rules don't I get you for three more years?
william		I missed the last thing you said.
elaine		I LOVE YOU.
william		WHAT?
elaine		 I MISS YOU AND I LOVE YOU!
william		I LOVE YOU!!
russell		Fire away.  I'm ready.  I'm on the "You" Train.  Take me there.
william		Do you have to be depressed to write a sad song?  Do you have to be in love to write a love song?  Is a song better if it really happened to you?  Like, "If You Say Nothing"... where did you write that and how did it come about?
russell		When did you get so professional?
penny		I'm almost done with my shirt.
dick		Russell, your dad showed up again. And on a lighter note.  Gentlemen.  Your first t-shirts have arrived.
russell		Can we just skip the vibe and go straight to us laughing about this?
jeff		 Yeah.  Okay.
russell		 Because I can see by your face - you want to get into this -
jeff		How can you tell?  I'm just one of the out-of-focus guys.
russell		Here we go.
jeff		Well, it speaks pretty loudly to me.
russell		It's a t-shirt.
jeff		I'm always gonna tell you the truth.
russell		Are you doing coke again?
jeff		Oh yeah.  All the time.
russell		Excuse me, but didn't we all get into this to avoid responsibility?
jeff		Forgive me.  But this is the slow-moving train of compromise that will kill us.
russell		You can trust him,  you can say whatever you want.
jeff		 And yet, why do I always end up feeling like I'm a joke to you?  I feel nothing but love for you.  We're a family.
russell		Is it my turn?  Because I think we should, for once, say what we really mean.
jeff		Oh, this is the part where you quit -
russell		 Right.  I'm so predictable.
jeff		No  I gotta tell the truth -- I want you to like me.  But sometimes I feel like you collect people who love you and then very skillfully... you make them feel bad that they're not good enough for you.
russell		Stick to singing, brother, 'cause you ain't gonna make it as a shrink.
jeff		Deal with it!  And let me just say what nobody Else wants to say to you -
russell		What?
jeff		Your looks have become a problem.
dad		Son!
russell		 Hello Harry.
dad		He got all the good genes, huh?  Meet Deirdre.  We're getting married in July.
william		You okay?  You alright?
russell		 From here on out, I'm only interested in what's real.
william		Thanks.
russell		You know, you know all about us and I don't know shit about you.  What's your... your family like?  Tell me.
william		Well, my dad died of a heart attack and my sister believes that my Mom is so intense that she might have contributed to it.  Plus -
russell		 Okay, that's good.  That's enough.
william		It's good to talk about it.  Really good.
russell		If they want me, they can find me.
william		So listen.  I have to go home tomorrow. I know this is a bad time to finish our interview.
russell		Hey, man, you know what?  Write whatever you want.  I trust you.
russell		On my better days, yes.  I am "Woooooo, Russell from Stillwater!"
russell		 You.  Aaron.  Are what it's all about. You are real.  Your room is real. Your friends are real.  You are more important than... than... all the silly machinery.  And you know it!  In eleven years it's gonna be 1984, man.  Think about that!
aaron		Wanna see me feed a mouse to my snake?
russell		Yes.
russell		Take it!
aaron		Down the hall by the washing machine.
russell		What?
aaron		The bathroom.
russell		Okay.  Good to know.
william		We should probably head back sometime.
russell		Topeka.  Check it out.
william		Please don't give him any more acid.
russell		Faces.  Stones.  Sa-weet Baby James!! None of these people are gonna be around in twenty years!  Plastic begets plastic!!   Black plastic.
william		No no.  Nope.  No.
russell		 I AM A GOLDEN GOD!!
william		Hey Russell -
russell		I AM A GOLDEN GOD!!
william		Don't jump, okay?
russell		And you can tell Rolling Stone Magazine my last words were -
william		I think we should work on those last words.
russell		Critic!!
william		No, I'm not -
russell		Okay I got it.  I got it.  I got it. I got it.   This is better.  Last words -  I DIG MUSIC!!
william		Just come on down!!
russell		 Okay.
russell		Thanks for saving my life.  I won't hold it against you.
dick		 They've been crying for you like a bunch of whimpering pussies --
russell		 The band is over.  This is my family now.
others		Right on.  He's staying with us.
dick		 Definitely.  It's all over.  We'll just ride on to Greenville, listen to some great music, finish the tour, and leave those ungrateful fools behind. And then we'll come back here, where you'll live.
russell		I know what you're doing... and I like it.  How do we know he's not a cop?
dick		 Easy.  He's your Guardian Angel.
william		Which half?
dick		Good question.
william		 I have to go home.
dick		Hey.  You saved the tour.   That's good enough for now.
quiet girl		I'll never forget you.
lester		How's it going?
william		Rolling Stone is calling me.  I don't have my key interview.  I don't know what to say.
lester bangs		 You're flipping out.  That's good. Alright.  This is how you blow their minds.  He'll ask you - this is Ben Fong-Torres, right? - he'll ask you how the story's going.  Here's what you do - let's fry his mind.  Tell him "it's a think piece about a mid-level band struggling with their own limitations in the harsh face of stardom."  Ha ha!!  This is fun!
william		 ... think... piece...
sapphire		It says the food is hearty and adventurous.
polexia		 Greenville.  I'm bored.
sapphire		Who his the quaaludes from me?
william		Wait.  I'll leave.
penny		Backwards?
william		 I don't know.  I just thought we could hang out, maybe do some stuff back home, regular stuff, get to know each other better... and then I'd see you pee.  I mean, that's the way I usually do it.
penny		You're one of us.  It's no big deal.
william		I'm not one of you.
penny		Oh!  If you go to Cleveland, Bowie's going to be there at Swingo's, the greatest hotel in America.  I'll introduce you to him, and his security guy Dennis.
william		Don't you have any regular friends?
penny		Famous people are just more interesting.
william		 Well, I would be worried that they were using me.  And not that anybody's using you, but -
penny		Boy, if this was the real world and some guy talked to me like that -
william		Let me finish.  I'm not famous.... but you could always use me.   If anything happens.  And I would never use you.  Even if I got famous.  So you know, you always have that from me... in the real world.  If you ever have to go back there, for anything.
sapphire		Your time has come.
william		Did he call?  What are you -- stop it -- we're talking here.
sapphire		Pants him.  Opie must die.
sapphire		Just relax.  Take a vacation from yourself.  Leave this to professionals.
sapphire		 Hello.  Hi, Ben-Fong-Torres from Rolling Stone.
william		 Hello.
ben		Hello William, this is your editor at --
william		I'm getting good stuff out here.
ben		Sounds like it.
polexia		Man, I need some -
ben		 Now listen.  Get it together.  We're both professionals, I don't have to tell you this.  You're not out there to join the party -- we already have one Hunter Thompson.  You're out there to interview and Report.  You got me? This isn't Creem Magazine, it's Rolling Stone.  We need this story in four days.  Now I want to know how it's shaping up.
william		It's a think-piece about a mid-level band grappling with their limitations in the face of the harsh glare of success.
ben		 I like what we're saying.  Let me try and get you a thousand more words. It's in consideration for the cover, but don't tell the band.
william		 Crazy.
polexia		- coffee.
sapphire		Me too.  Greenville is so boring.  Any other city in the world and you'd still be a virgin.
william		I'm going out to find Russell.
sapphire		Will you take the laundry?
william		 What am I to you?  Tell me right now! What. Am.  I.  To.  You.
william		Houdini... Houdini...
william		No.  I can't.  You've got to help me. I have to go home.
russell		Come on man, we'll have more time there. Don't be tense!!
william		 You said you'd help me.
penny		 Come to Cleveland.
russell		 Come to Cleveland... Come to Cleveland...
william		I can't!!
russell		Can we help it if we like having you around!
penny		Rock and roll!
william		 Rock and roll.
russell		I feel... like his parents.
penny		I know.
russell		I wonder how that happened.
penny		You ever notice that all our sentences begin with "I?"
russell		I hadn't, no.
penny		'Cause we should work on that.
russell		Cleveland!
fan		It's Bowie!
william		Hi Mom.  I'm in Cleveland.
russell		Tell her you're a slave to the groove - you can't help it!
william		 No.
russell		Hi Mom!  It's Russell Hammond, I play guitar in Stillwater!   It's my fault. How does it feel to be the mother of the future of rock journalism?  Hello?
elaine		Listen to me.   Your charm does not work on me.  I'm onto you.  Of course you like him.
russell		Yes.
elaine		He worships you people and that's fine with you, as long as he helps make you rich.
russell		 Rich?  I don't think so -
elaine		Listen to me.  He's a smart, good- hearted, 15 year-old kid, with infinite potential.
russell		Yes, ma'am.
elaine		If you break his spirit, harm him in any way, keep him from his chosen profession -- which is law, Something you may not value but I do -- you will meet the voice on the other end of this telephone.  And it will not be pretty.    Do we understand each other?
russell		Yes... yes...
elaine		 I didn't ask for this role, but I'll play it.  Now go do your best.  "Be bold and mighty forces will come to your aide!"  Goethe said that.  It's not too late for you to be a person of substance.  Get my son home safely, I'm glad we spoke.
william		Some people get her.  Some don't.
russell		Your Mom kind of freaked me out.
william		She means well.
dick		 From Troy, Michigan...
william		So when you play a great show like tonight...
dick		Okay.  I need everybody's attention.
russell		 Then bring him in.
jeff		 Bring him in!  We'll send him out on a rail!
russell		 We'll finish on the way to Boston. You can fly home from Boston.
dennis hope		 Hi.
russell		We already have a manager.  He's been with us from the beginning.
dennis hope		Respectfully.  We all have our roots. I believe in bands holding onto their roots.  But those roots need to be augmented.  I'm gonna tell you the truth - I may enrage some and enthrall others. I don't really give a fuck.   Your manager here needs a manager.  Example. If you hadn't run out on the contract in Phoenix, you could have sued over Russell's hand... but you left, negating the contract, forfeiting the deposit, and you effectively traveled a long way to pay that promoter... to electrocute you.
russell		 We travel by bus.
jeff		Doris is the soul of this band!  That bus has been our home since we were the Jeff Bebe Band.
dennis		Hey man -- it's travel on a pogo stick if I thought we'd make more money. You can play more dates with a plane...
russell		 Hey man, it's not about the money!  It's about Playing music, and turning people on!
dennis hope		 Yes, of course.  Clearly. Respectfully.   But on the distasteful subject of money.  Just know.  You're making it -- right now -- and it's all --
dick		But why should we pay you for something we can do ourselves?
dennis hope		 Do you know how you get a record not pressed but played?  Do you know?  I didn't invent the rainy day, man.  I just own the best umbrella.
dick		 Yeah, well... we'll think about what you said.
dennis hope		 No no.  You don't understand.  I'll think about it.  I'm not auditioning. I came here to decide whether I want to represent you.  So I'll stand outside for a moment, and think about whether I want to stay.
russell		This is not us.   This is too much.
dennis hope		Do you mind?
william		Anyone seen Russell?
dick		The Enemy!
russell		Hey!  Welcome to the Road Crew Poker Party.  This game's been going of for two years.
dick		That's Mick - he's with The Who.  That's John - with J. Geils.  And that's Richard with the Eagles... and you know The Wheel.
the wheel		Hey.
dick		Side proposition.  For fifty dollars and a case of Heineken, I will put into the pot... three Lovely Ladies, Including the famous Penny Lane... the Band-Aids, who need to exit our tour before New York...
reg		It's a deal.  Show 'em.
dick		Three Lovely Ladies... now in the custody of Humble Pie.
reg		Alright, so we owe you fifty dollars and a case of Heineken.
russell		Look.  Nobody's feelings are getting hurt here.  She already knows Leslie's coming To New York tomorrow.  They all understand.  This is the Circus. Everybody's trying not to go home. Nobody's saying goodbye.
william		No, I got it.
russell		These are the Rules that come with every electric Guitar and every amplifier.  They're not just written anywhere.  Rock and roll, brother.  No attachments.  No boundaries.
sabbath roadie		Keep this hallway clear!
dick		Happy Birthday from us.
russell		So Penny our friend has gained another year. But long ago, she threw it in gear. She rocked the south The East and West. Could you please get off this endless tour Where we're Black Sabbath's fucking special guest?
dennis hope		 Sorry the plane isn't bigger.
penny		So it wasn't a birthday party, it was a farewell.
william		What's that?
penny		 You're worried about me and Russell.
william		Yeah.  I gotta work on that.
penny		You're so sweet.  God -- if there was more of you in him...
william		Don't tell me this stuff.  I want to like him.
penny		 Did you miss your test or something?
william		 Penny -
penny		 Forget it.  I'm flying to New York myself.  I have a bunch of partial tickets.  I know his ex-wife, current girlfriend's going to be there -
william		-- I'm not sure that's a good idea.
penny		 What?  What are you saying?  What do you know?  Did Russell say something?
william		I don't know anything.
penny		I know he wants me there.  He gave me a cake.  He wrote me that sweet poem.
william		 Wake up!  Don't go to New York!
penny		What are you telling me?
william		Because you're not who you said you were!  I thought you were retired!
penny		You're right.  I'm not who I said I was.  I'm just like you. I love music, so this is my family.  Some people like tractors, and they hang out with tractor people.  What's the worst that could happen if I go to New York?  "I get my little heart broken?"
william		Oh no.  Never you!  You eat people alive!
penny		 I'm sorry I told you so much.   You have some way of making everybody tell you all their secrets.
william		That's a good one.  Tell me too much and make it my fault.
penny		Come on.  You've seen what's happened. Russell and I fell in love.  How much, I don't know... but this is the first time I've fallen for someone, really fallen... since Iggy, and I'm not happy about it.
william		 You slept with Iggy Pop!?
penny		 You'll remember me forever.  I was there when you lost your virginity.
william		 So was Steely Dan!  It was a crowded room.
penny		You make me laugh.  I think I'm gonna cry.
william		 I thought we were going to Morocco! There's no Morocco.  There's never been a Morocco.  There's not even a Penny Lane.  I don'teven know your real name.
penny		If I ever met a guy in the real world, who looked at me the way you just looked at me...
william		When and where does the real world occur?  I am really... confused here. Fuck!  All these Rules And all these sayings... and nicknames...
penny		You know -- you're too sweet for rock and roll.
william		Where do you get off... where do you get "sweet?"  I'm not sweet.  I'm dark and mysterious and pissed-off and I could be very dangerous to all of you... I'm not sweet, and you should know that about me!  I am The Enemy.
penny		You're not any of those things and that's what I love about you.
william		You fall in love to keep from falling in love.
penny		I don't want to go home!
william		Well, I have to go home.  And you never helped me.
penny		Yes I did.
william		That disc-jockey in Arizona got a better interview than me... and he was asleep.
penny		Look.  You should be happy for me. You don't know what he says to me in private.  Maybe it is love.  As much as it can be with someone who --
william		 -- sold you to Humble Pie for fifty dollars and a case of beer?  I was there!
penny		What kind of beer?
polexia		Who did this to us?
elaine		Then don't come home.  Don't do this to me.  If you're going to miss graduation, don't come home.
elaine		I'm sorry.  I can't concentrate.  Rock stars kidnaped my son.
russell		"New York.  Just like I pictured it... "
jeff		" ... skyscrapers and everything."
russell		 We showed you America.  We did everything but get you laid.
fan		I'm from the Church of Lenny.   We bow to his will and all that it represents - The King of the King of Kings.
russell		Make it out to - ?
fan		To Lenny.
dick		She's here.
jeff		Leslie!
dick		Your room is completely stocked, far away from any noisy ice machines, elevators or maid quarters.  The air- conditioning is already on.  And here is your security key -- by the way, you look stunning.
leslie		 ThanksI'llseeyoulater.
dick		Bags in five!  Cars leave for the party at six!
william		 Well -- I kept thinking I was going home the next day --
dick		I did too.  Fifteen years ago.
william		Ric!
ric		 They're all staying under the name Emily Rugburn.
russell		 After the party.  I'll come to your room - I promise.  We'll talk.  This is Leslie, by the way.  Leslie, this is our wayward friend from Rolling Stone.  The Enemy.
clerk		William Miller?  Sir, you have an urgent call from a Mr. "Ben Fong-Torres." He's holding for you, right now.
william		 Hello.
ben		Congratulations.  It's gonna be a cover. Neal Preston will shoot 'em next week in L.A.  we need you back in San Francisco tomorrow.  We'll finish the story here.
william		Mojo?
ben		A mojo.  It's a very modern machine that transmits pages over the telephone. It only takes eighteen Minutes a page...
dennis hope		He's okay, he's with us -
russell		Ah ha!  There you are, ya little fucker. Come on --
william		I have some good news.
russell		-- I'll piss to that.  Follow me.
russell		Dennis Hope took me aside, and wants to manage Me solo.  Says to lose the band by February.  Should I do it?  I have no perspective anymore.
william		I do.
russell		 Oh - get this - somebody told Penny Lane I sold her for beer.  The network of these chicks!  Like I would do that. It's Jeff who told her, right?  Not you, right?  None of these guys can just calm down and be a fuckin adult. Now she's here, freaking out.  Leslie can smell it.
william		 Wait.  I've got something to tell -
william		You guys -- you guys --  You're gonna be on the cover of Rolling Stone.
jeff		 The cover of Rolling Stone.  And we made it together.  They don't just put somebody with one little hit on the cover of Rolling Stone Fucking Magazine, man.  We made it.
leslie		Who is that girl?  She's creeping me out.  She's not with any of you, is she?
william		Emily Rugburn, please.
william		Hi.  I'm a friend of Penny Lane's.
william		Where is she?
english musician		She's sick.  Let's get out of here.
william		What happened?
penny lane		I'm not good at goodbyes.
william		Oh -- wonderful.  Front desk?  Please send a doctor. Room... what room?  703.  702.   Both rooms, either room.  This is Mr. Rugburn, Yes.  My wife's had an accident with some quaaludes.  Yes - I'll do that.
principal		And now... out graduating class!  Jane Abbott!
principal		Victor Sanchez!
william		"In the unlikely event of a water landing... "
penny		"... you will be required to wear a safety vest."
william		Keep going.
penny		"Please place all stowable luggage in the overhead compartments... out in the seat in front of you."
william		 "Seat and tray tables."
penny		"And seat-backs and tray-tables should be in their full and upright and locked positions... "
principal		And now... out "Pending" Graduates!  William Miller... not present.
william		"In the tragic event of a water landing..."
principal		And to the class of 1973, we say --  They key to the future is keeping today alive forever.
elaine		Please let there be only two, because I can't get past Number One.
elaine		He's got twelve of them.  They're lined up.  He's just tired of me.
penny		"... you will be required to..."  I'm tired.
william		Well.  Now that I have your attention. And you may not remember this later, I just want to make it clear that... Hey!  I love you, and I'm about to boldly go where...  Many men have gone before...
doctor		Your wife will be okay for now -
william		Thank you Doctor.
doctor		However, she says you're her brother.
william		 She's a little confused.
doctor		Nice champagne.
william		I don't have a driver's license.  With me.
doctor		Tomorrow's my wedding anniversary. I'd prefer to take care of this without facing the dawn at the police station. So if you can find a way to get this girl - your wife - back home to her parents, I'd let you pay me anything you can afford.  Because you don't appear to be related to the famous Rugburns of Rhode Island.
william		Happy Anniversary.
doctor		She won't be good company, but keep her awake for another four hours.
penny		 When I was 14, my Mom and her boyfriend took me to a Rolling Stones concert - and I freaked out and I rushed up to the front of the stage and then a thousand people had the same idea at the same time and I was getting crushed. And I couldn't breathe and that thought flashed through me - almost like a car accident - I thought I might die.  And it was in the middle of "Midnight Rambler" and Keith Richards saw me. And he came over, and came to the front of the stage, and he pulled me out. And they took me backstage and they gave me coke with ice and a - and a lemon.  And I never went home.
william		What about your Mom?
penny		She always said - "Marry Up." Marry someone grand.  That's why she named me Lady.
william		 She named you Lady?
penny		Lady Goodman.
william		No.
penny		You never really get used to it, either.
william		Well -- this -- this just explains everything.
penny		See you back there.
william		Hey Lady!
stewardess		Please extinguish all flammable items, and return all seats and tray tables to their full and upright locked positions.
russell		Why didn't you come back to the party? Bob Dylan showed up.  He was sitting at our table for... had to be an hour, right?  Just  Rapping.  Bob Dylan!  I kept looking for you.  I was going to introduce you.
jeff		What happened to you last night?
william		It's a log story.
russell		 "Peggy Sure... Peggy Sue... "
dick		Please.
russell		"Pretty pretty pretty pretty Peggy Sue... "
jeff		We shouldn't be here.
russell		Doris, we miss you!
pilot's voice		This is Craig, your pilot.  It appears we've caught the edge of that electrical storm we were trying to outrun.  Buckle up tight now.  We're gonna do our best to getcha out of this.
jeff		"Electrical storm?"
russell		 Rock and roll.
dennis hope		A field?
jeff		I can't breathe.
dick		And everyone thinks it's so glamorous out here.
larry		 He just told us we're gonna die.
jeff		 We're gonna crash in Elvis' hometown --
russell		Shut up.
jeff		-- we can't even die in an original city!
russell		C'mon Dennis, get us a better city.
leslie		Oh my God.
russell		If something should happen.  I love all of you.  I don't think we have to do the secrets thing.
dennis hope		I once hit a man in Dearborn, Michigan. A hit-and-run.  I hit him and kept on going.  I don't know if he's alive or dead, but I'm sorry.
leslie		 Oh my God.
dick		I love you all too, and you're my family.  Especially since Marna left me.  But if I ever took an extra dollar or two, here and there, it was because I knew I'd earned it.
russell		I slept with Marna, Dick.
jeff		I did too.
larry		I waited until you broke up with her. But me too.
jeff		I also slept with Leslie, when you were fighting.
russell		You... slept with Jeff?
leslie		Yes, but it didn't count.  It was the summer we decided to be free of all rules.
russell		 And you say you "love me."
jeff		 I don't love you, man.  I never did.
russell		Please.  Enough.
jeff		NONE of us love you.  You act above us.  You ALWAYS HAVE!!
larry		Finally.  The truth.
jeff		You just held it over us, like you light leave... like we're lucky to be with you. And we had to live with it. I had to live with you, and now I might die with you and it's not fucking fair.
russell		 You hate me?  You too?
jeff		And I'm still in love with you Leslie.
leslie		I don't want to hear anymore.    Shut up! Shut up!  Shut up!
russell		 Whatever happens, you're dead.
jeff		Don't be self-righteous, Russell, not now.  You were sleeping with Penny, that groupie.  Last summer, and up until yesterday.  Why don't you tell Leslie THAT?
dennis		 I quit.
william		"That groupie?"  She was a Band-Aid. All she did was love your band.  And you all -- you used her, all of you. You used her and threw her away.  She almost died last night, while you were with Bob Dylan.  You're always talking about the fans, the fans, the fans. She was your biggest fan and you threw her away.  And if you can't see that, that's your biggest problem.
ed		I'm gay.
jeff		Well, I think we can build on this new honesty.
receptionist		Leave your package at the desk.
william		I'm not a messenger.  I'm one of your writers.  William Miller.
ben		You're William Miller?
william		Yep.
ben		 Oh baby.
jann		We can't run this piece.
ben		You obviously saw more than you wrote about.  After eight days on the road with these guys.
david felton		Didn't anything happen?
jann		And where are you in this piece?  What did you want to write?  Because this reads like what they wanted you to write.
ben		What happened to your highly-touted think piece on limitations of a middle- level Band in the face of success?
jann		We can push up Chet's Who cover -
fact checker		Good 'cause it's going to take me three days to get through this research. It's all handwritten, on little slips. Plus, they all refer to woman as "chicks." I mean, as a woman I have a problem with that.  I know it's a side issue.
david felton		 Happened with me and Charlie Manson. He was a very charming... lively... charismatic...
william		Please let me finish it.  Give me tonight to work on it.
fact checker		Chet's piece is all fact-checked and ready.
jann		 Get some sleep.  We'll do another story sometime.  We'll get you a kill fee.
fact checker		His research is all on little bits of paper.  Did I say that?
william		Ben.  You told me to send what I had. It's not finished.
fact checker		That's being charitable.
jann		Let him use the big office.   It's where Hunter used to write.
fact checker		 You can type.
william		Yes.  It took it in grade school.
lester bangs		Aw, man.  You made friends with them! See, friendship is the booze they feed you.  They want you to get drunk on feeling like you belong.
william		 Well, it was fun.
lester bangs		They make you feel cool.  And hey.  I met you.  You are not "cool."
william		I know.  Even when I though I was, I knew I wasn't.
lester bangs		That's because we are uncool!  And while women will always be a problem for guys like us, most of the great   art in the world is about that very problem. Good-looking people have no spine! Their art never lasts!  They  get the girls, but we're smarter.
william		I can really see that now.
lester bangs		Yeah, great art is about conflict and pain and guilt and longing and love disguised as sex, and sex disguised as love... and let's face it, you got a big head start.
william		I'm glad you were home.
lester bangs		I'm always home!  I'm uncool!
william		Me too!
lester bangs		 The only true currency in this bankrupt world if what we share with someone else when we're uncool.
william		 I feel better
lester		My advice to you.  I know you think those guys are your friends.  You want to be a true friend to them?
lester bangs		Be honest and unmerciful.  You're doing great.  Call me later is you want.  I'm always up.
felton		Read me the opening line.
ben		 "I am flying high over Tupelo, Mississippi, with America's hottest band, and we are all about to die."
felton		Mmmmm.  Dark.  Lively.
ben		Yeah, and it gets better.  Did this all really happen?
fact checker		 Give it to me.  I'll call and check the quotes.
jeff		Look.  Let's just piece together our information...  because the fact-checker asked us all about different parts of the story.
tony		What did he write about?  What's he using?
jeff		It.  All.  He's using it all.
russell		So what?
jeff		So what?  We come off like amateurs... some average band...  trying to come to grips, jealous and fighting and breaking up - we're buffoons!
russell		Maybe we just don't see ourselves the way we really are.
jeff		He was supposed to be our friend.
russell		 I told him to write what he wanted.
tony		 By the way, he has you on acid, screaming "I Am A Golden God" from a fan's rooftop.
russell		 Oh my God.
jeff		They used him to fuck us.
russell		 I didn't say "Golden God."  Or did I?
dick		We never took him seriously, and now it's serious.
russell		I liked him as a person.
jeff		He was never a "person!"  He was a journalist!
russell		You.  You had the right idea all along.
dennis hope		 How about the plane flight?
dick		It's all in there.  But don't worry, it's all unspecific who say what.  No names are mentioned in the more embarrassing sequences, it's just completely obvious who's who!  We're fucked!
russell		I forgot he was there.
dennis hope		Well, they haven't talked to Russell - he can always deny the key stuff to the fact checker.  Then they can't print it.
jeff		 Is that true?
dennis hope		It's war, my friend.  If you'd met me earlier, he would have never been on the around.
fact checker		The band just denied 90% of the story. It's a fabrication.
william		Did you talk to Russell?
fact checker		Russell Hammond is the one who denied it.
ben		 Crazy.
fact checker		 We're going with the Who - !
someone's voice		He's just some fan... what did you expect?
felton		Well, I believe you.
william		Goodbye.
felton		Powerful  word.  Strong.  Final.
russell		I feel bad.
sapphire		Well, at least you feel.  That puts you in a higher class of asshole.
russell		What did I do?
sapphire		Well - you can do what the big boys do.  Nothing.
russell		Yeah.
sapphire		You believe these new girls?  None of 'em take birth control, and they eat all the steak.
russell		Is Penny okay?
sapphire		The Quaalude Incident.  Yeah, it wasn't pretty.  She could have died.  I always warned her about letting too many guys fall in love with her.  I guess I was wrong.  On of 'em saved her life.
russell		Well, it's finally over with Leslie. I'm going to call her.
sapphire		Let her retire.  ... pretty average people.  She deserves it...
dick		Have a good vacation.  I hope the band stays together.  Before it all went down the shitter, it was starting to get really good.
russell		I'm not going to blame myself.  I do make people happy.  They just shouldn't get to know me... 'cause it appears to spoil everything.
sapphire		Don't be so easy on yourself.
russell		What gives you the right to get this personal with me.
sapphire		Let's not reminisce.
anita		William?
anita		You guys, I'll deadhead back later.  I think I'm needed.
female attendant		You have a good day!
anita		You look awful, but that's great. You're living your life!  You're finally free of... her.
william		Yeah.
anita		Hey.  I'll take off work.  Let's have an adventure together.  You and me, finally.  Anywhere you want to go. Anywhere in the world.
anita		This is not my idea of a good time.
william		Just get me to my bed.
anita		 I'll deal with her.
anita		 What are we going to do about him?
elaine		I don't know.  Whatever happened to him, I just wish it could have happened to me.
anita		The magazine killed his story.
russell		Hi, I'm Russel Hammond.
secretary		You're here regarding?
russell		My life.
russell		I don't care what happens.  I don't care if you put us on the cover.  But you sent us a kid and... and he was a fan.   And we all made friends with him - absolutely, to get a good story. But then we actually liked him.  We thought he's... show us our lives in some mythic way and I guess... we're not mythic.  We panicked.
jann		You denied most of the story.
russell		Yeah, well, here's the problem with the truth.  It's too true -
ben		Well, we appreciate the visit.  The last time an artist came here, it was Buddy Miles and he punched me.
russell		I'm not punching anybody.  I am personally, as of 2 pm yesterday, on a voyage of self-reinvention.  This is about William Miller.  He lives with us, he lost his virginity, he saw us at our worst, appreciated our best, he saved two lives, including mine... he smuggled about a half-pound of pot into Boston, and we never even told him -
jann		It's too late.  We're going with a different cover.
russell		 Thank God.
ben		Next time we'll all be more professional.
russell		Maybe so.  You might have died at the right time, my friend.
jann		Thank you for visiting.  Good luck.
russell		Do what you want, but the story is true.
anita		They're called pancakes.  Who knows when we'll be together again.  Splurge. It's what most people call breakfast.
elaine		I went through your records.  And I found a song to play for you.
****Dialogues from script :alone_in_the_dark.txt****

sheriff		What's going on, Adams?
deputy adams		Twenty kids live at this orphanage, Sheriff. All twenty have gone missing.
sister clara		After the power went out, I went to check on the children. But their beds were empty. Every one of them. They just disappeared...
deputy adams		Are you okay, son? Are the other kids around here?
young edward		I don't know... I don't remember...
deputy adams		Why don't we start with your name? Do you remember your name?
young edward		Edward... Edward Carnby.
small boy		Did you have a nightmare?
carnby		Your mother is wrong. Being afraid of the dark is what keeps most of us alive.
small boy		Everybody else tells me not to be afraid.
carnby		That's because they don't know the truth.
cabbie		You travel light.
carnby		Trust me, I'm carrying enough baggage for the both of us.
cabbie		That's pretty funny, man. What do you do?
carnby		You really want to know?
cabbie		Yeah, man. Hearing about my passengers' lives keeps the job interesting.
carnby		I'm a paranormal investigator.
cabbie		Get the fuck outta here!
carnby		I'm an effective solution to unusual problems.
cabbie		No shit? Want me to lose him?
carnby		If you can...
cabbie		I'm trapped, man!
carnby		I'll draw him away...
beat cop		Hey!
guard		Got another delivery, Ms. Cedrac.
aline		I don't have anything scheduled. What museum was it transferred from?
delivery guy		For Dr. Hudgens, from Dr. Hudgens.
aline		It's probably an error. It must be for the big Abkani show.
delivery guy		Abkani? What the hell's Abkani?
guard		Ancient Native American civilization. They were this super-advanced culture, but something like ten thousand years ago, they just disappeared.
line		You've been reading up.
guard		Not much else to do around here at night.
delivery guy		Says here it's not to be opened by anyone but Dr. Hudgens.
guard		This is Aline Cedrac. She's the assistant curator.
aline		We've got Abkani artifacts coming in from museums around the world. Until Hudgens gets back, I'm doing all the cataloguing anyway.
guard		Where is Hudgens anyway? The show opens in a few days.
aline		Off on another archeological goosechase. He thinks he's finally found the Erebus.
guard		So he sticks you with the work. At least it keeps your mind off your boyfriend.
line		I'll be in my office if you need me.
delivery guy		What was that all about?
guard		Damn it... I shouldn't have said that. Her boyfriend's been missing for the last three months.
delivery guy		Nice going, jack-ass.
captain chernick		They say a sunken ship is like a grave. It should never be disturbed.
hudgens		I've been searching for the Erebus for twenty years, Captain. Now that I've found it, I'm afraid your ill-informed superstitions aren't enough to stop me.
hudgens		Bring it up.
captain chernick		Don't you want to open it? Make sure it's what you're looking for?
hudgens		The conditions must be perfect. Otherwise, there will be... consequences.
captain chernick		Is this made of solid gold?
hudgens		Did you know the Abkani were the first civilization to use gold for their valuables? They believed it held the power to contain evil spirits. Thousands of years later, we don't even remember why gold was valuable to us in the first place. Now, let's load it onto the truck.
aline		The pictograms are late-period Abkani. It seems to be some sort of... prophecy. Shadows that make ghosts of men. The world of light consumed by darkness. This is the first indication I've ever seen that the Abkani had a myth about the end of the world.
captain chernick		If the container's made of gold, whatever's inside must be worth a fortune.
hudgens		You have no idea...
captain chernick		But I'm looking forward to finding out.
hudgens		I suppose one should not be surprised when mercenaries act mercenary.
captain chernick		The only mistake would be letting you walk out with whatever's in there. Barnes...
hudgens		Captain! Don't open it!
linda		John?
hudgens		They're faster than I thought...
captain chernick		Kill him.
burke		his better be good, Miles.
agent miles		Sir, we're getting some strange readings in the control room.
burke		his is Bureau 713. "Strange" doesn't even crack my radar. Now what's the situation?
agent miles		Well, sir, normal levels of paranormal activity range from three to five...
burke		condescending) Yes Miles. And what level are the sensors picking up now?
agent miles		We don't know.
burke		What are we looking at, Krashinsky?
krash		Electromagnetics off the scale, Commander.
agent yonek		Recalibrating sensors now, sir.
sister clara		Still having trouble sleeping, Edward? You can't stay up all night, you know.
young edward		Sister, something's happened.
sister clara		What is it, Edward?
young edward		They're not gone anymore. The others are back.
carnby		 Hello?
carnby		Linda, what's wrong?
carnby		I'll figure this out, Linda. I'll find John.
linda		Edward... you've known each other since you were kids. Did he... did he tell you he was leaving me?
carnby		Of course not.
linda		Then where is he, Edward? What's going on?
sister clara		Welcome home, Edward.
sophie		Should I make some tea?
sister clara		Yes. Thank you, Sophie.
carnby		Sister... John disappeared last night. And something happened to me as well.
sister clara		It's happening again.
carnby		I need your help, Sister. I need to find the others.
sister clara		I'll get their files.
carnby		I'll let you know as soon as I hear something.
fischer		Why did I agree to this?
carnby		I ordered for you, Fischer. It's pecan.
fischer		You've got a good memory, Carnby.
carnby		That means all nineteen are missing.
fischer		I ran full cross-references. Nothing much in common between them. Except they all grew up in the same orphanage. Your orphanage. What's going on, Carnby?
carnby		That's what I'm trying to find out.
aline		Hello?
aline		It's a fascinating piece, Dr. Hudgens. I started decoding the pictograms and...
aline		I was only going to catalogue it for you.
aline		But, Dr. Hudgens, I was just...
guard		There's... somebody here to see you.
aline		Edward...
carnby		I missed you too.
aline		I thought you were dead, you asshole!
carnby		Aline... let me explain. In private.
aline		Give me one reason why I'd ever want to speak to you again?
carnby		Five minutes, Aline. I'll tell you everything.
carnby		I was in the Amazon for six weeks, tracking poachers through their transport lines. Then I fell in with a group of ex- Chilean military selling artifacts on the black-market. This was found in a gold mine in the southern tip of Chile.
aline		And how did you end up with it?
carnby		I asked very nicely.
aline		You should've called, Edward. Or written. Just to let me know you were alive.
carnby		Does it make any sense to you?
aline		Yesterday, maybe not. But something happened last night.
aline		They were found in completely different locations. Alaska. Newfoundland. Venezuela. And now this one's from Chile.
carnby		Ten thousand years ago, it would've been like burying them at the ends of the earth.
aline		The Abkani's written language is based on pictograms. Combinations of symbols to create different meanings. But there's one here I've never seen before.
carnby		You're not trying to seduce me, are you?
aline		Give me that.
aline		What is it?
carnby		Hairs on the back of my neck just stood up.
aline		How come every time you show up, my life gets complicated?
carnby		I could ask you the same thing.
carnby		I think we'd better run...
carnby		Can't hold it...
aline		No! Why didn't you ask me that before you pushed me in here?
aline		Those doors lead to the front entrance.
agent barr		Reading two xenos.
agent cheung		There!
agent barr		Cheung! Marko! Don't let them get away!
krash		Readings gone. You lost them, Barr.
burke		I want a full security sweep. Miles, get Fischer to send his sci-and-spy boys down here. Now go.
burke		hat the hell are you doing here, Carnby?
carnby		Hey Richie.
burke		It's Commander Burke. This is my unit.
aline		They saved our lives.
burke		You used to be able to take care of yourself, Carnby. Gotten soft since you left 713?
agent miles		Ms. Cedrac, I'm Agent Miles. This is Commander Burke.
burke		Aline Cedrac. Pleasure to meet you. How's the Ph.D. coming along?
aline		It's fine. Thanks.
burke		Miles, get her to a medic.
carnby		I'll catch up.
burke		Why am I still looking at you?
carnby		I need to know what those things are.
burke		That information's classified. If you were still an agent, you'd already know. But since you're not, stay out of my way.
carnby		I'm asking nicely.
burke		Get him out of here!
carnby		You're right, Commander. I guess I have gone soft.
aline		I want to finish studying those artifacts.
carnby		I need to find out what's happened to John and the others. Stay in contact. We'll meet up later.
aline		Commander, I need to get to my office.
burke		The museum's quarantined until we're done.
aline		At least let me pack up my work. There's priceless artifacts in there. If they get damaged...
burke		If you notice anything out of the ordinary, let me know immediately.
aline		I don't think I want to know your definition of out of the ordinary.
fischer		You shouldn't be here, Carnby.
carnby		I'm not here. Commander Burke is. Now what the hell is that thing inside him?
fischer		Your curiosity have anything to do with the fingerprint of yours I found on his corpse?
carnby		The list of people I trust is short, Fischer. Is it about to get shorter?
fischer		Yeah, we got dentals. Agent James
carnby		He was an agent? When?
fischer		Went MIA twenty years ago. Presumed dead. I'm trying to get more intell, but his records are so classified, they're practically invisible. C arnby takes the tongs from Fischer, holding open the skin. Fischer makes a series of incisions with the scalpel, disconnecting the spinal-worm from Pinkerton's spine.
carnby		It's fused with his nervous system.
fischer		I've never seen this kind of symbiosis before.
aline		Dr. Hudgens. When did you get back?
hudgens		A few hours ago. I heard there was some excitement. Are you alright?
aline		I'm fine. A bit shaken up. But fine.
hudgens		I apologize for snapping at you earlier. Now, what are you still doing here after all you've been through?
aline		Edward.
hudgens		This is a major find. I'll need to analyze it. Confirm its authenticity.
aline		I can do that myself.
hudgens		That wasn't a request...
hudgens		And you are?
agent cheung		Ms. Cedrac's security detail.
hudgens		My dear, do you have any idea who I...
agent cheung		 Dr. Lionel Hudgens. Former agent, sci-and- spy division. Currently 713 advisor status. I know exactly who you are. But I'm not your "dear" anything.
hudgens		I'll just have to hold off my curiosity until morning.
aline		Dr. Hudgens... I forgot to ask. Did you find the Erebus this time?
hudgens		Just an empty shipwreck. You were right. It was another wild goosechase.
aline		Since when do I have a security detail?
agent cheung		Since it seemed like you needed it.
fischer		There's one inside you too. But the symbiosis is incomplete.
carnby		Can you remove it?
fischer		I could try. But it might paralyze you.
aline		What's missing...
carnby		I'm not much for coincidences. These organisms must be connected to those things from the museum.
fischer		We call them xenomorphs.
carnby		Catchy. When did they first appear?
fischer		Two years ago. They've been 713's top priority ever since. But it's been almost exclusively in rural areas. This kind of urban infiltration is unprecedented.
carnby		Have you isolated any weaknesses?
fischer		Most metals pass right through them. So normal bullets and blades are useless. But they're vulnerable to elements 76 to 79. Osmium, iridium, platinum, and gold. Negates their ability to disrupt electricity.
carnby		If they disrupt electricity, why did my flashlight still work?
fischer		The closer the current to its power source, the less disruption.
carnby		I'm going to need a lot of those.
carnby		Five minutes...
line		Edward?
burke		Have you been meeting with Carnby?
fischer		Yes. He's got intell we need. And I trust him.
urke		We've got to trust each other, Fischer. Are you with us or not?
burke		All the intell you've got on Edward Carnby.
fischer		What else could I do? I had to tell him.
sarah fischer		You did the right thing, Paul. From what you've told me, Carnby can take care of himself.
fischer		Sarah? Answer me! Sarah!
hudgens		If you can't beat us, Fischer, join us.
aline		Something smells amazing.
carnby		I know.
aline		I figured out a connection with the symbols on those artifacts. They correspond to constellations. But something's missing.
carnby		Maybe this will help...
aline		Can you run the program on this?
carnby		What are we looking for?
aline		The Abkani used constellations to pin- point a geographical location. But I don't think I can isolate it closer than a hundred mile radius.
carnby		Yeah. That's us right there.
carnby		John?
aline		That looked like John.
carnby		It is. The other two are from the orphanage as well.
aline		You had no choice.
carnby		Something's controlling them.
aline		How many are there altogether?
carnby		Twenty. Including me.
krash		Multiple readings confirmed. Back-up's on the way.
carnby		Aline!
agent barr		We're clear, sir.
burke		Love what you've done with the place, Carnby.
agent miles		Sir, this one's infected too!
agent turner		Got another one here!
burke		Drop your weapon and get down on the ground.
aline		What are you doing?
burke		He's been infected with some kind of organism. He could be under its control.
carnby		It's true. I've got one inside me. But it's not controlling me.
burke		You'll excuse me if I don't take your word for it. Now drop your weapon.
agent turner		Get out of the way!
aline		He's not one of them.
urke		If I've got to shoot through you to get to him, I'll do it.
carnby		Why are the lights still out?
agent barr		Scanner's clear.
burke		Forget to pay your power bill, Carnby?
aline		What does Hudgens have to do with this?
burke		That's what I want to find out. I need you both to brief me in the air.
krash		We're practically off the scale, Commander. This is unprecedented. Should I initiate Contingency Nine-Alpha?
krash		Is that a negative, Commander?
agent miles		We've got three perimeters of flash- mines. Gatling guns are set to electromagnetic motion tracking. And every available agent in the vicinity is here. But Commander...
burke		I know, Miles. But back-up won't make it before sunrise.
agent turner		Generator will be on-line shortly, sir.
aline		It looks like you're going to war.
burke		We are. The highest xeno concentration on record is closing in on this location. This could be our chance to wipe them out once and for all.
carnby		We need to go down there.
burke		What?
carnby		They're coming here for a reason. Until we know what they're after, we're never really going to be able to stop them.
agent miles		Something's definitely down there, sir. But there's too much interference to get a clear reading from here.
burke		Goddamn it. Miles, you're in charge of perimeter defense. Nothing gets in or out until we find out what's down there.
aline		I've been thinking about something. The Abkani prophecy. The shadows that make ghosts of men...
carnby		Every culture has a story about the end of the world.
aline		But not every story starts to come true.
agent barr		It's definitely this way, sir.
burke		It's a dead end.
agent barr		Readings are getting stronger.
burke		We'll double-back. Take another tunnel.
carnby		Wait. Aline, look at this...
aline		They're Abkani.
agent cheung		There's more over here.
agent barr		What do you got, Marko?
burke		We've got to get down there.
agent feenstra		How long do we have to hold them?
agent miles		Only until dawn.
agent feenstra		Sir... that's four hours away.
agent miles		I know.
agent miles		Incoming!
agent miles		Where the hell are the lights?
agent turner		The generator's not coming on-line. They must be disrupting it.
carnby		Aline!
burke		Cheung! Cut the line!
aline		It's a warning.
carnby		Subtle.
aline		The gist of it is, even if you make it down here alive, you're already dead.
agent miles		Hold your fire until they're at the second perimeter.
carnby		Aline!
burke		We've got to get up there.
gent turner		Hit it.
agent feenstra		We made it, sir.
agent turner		Fischer?
aline		Maybe this is what they look like when they grow outside a human host?
burke		I think you'd better see this.
agent miles		Feenstra!
aline		The Abkani didn't put this here.
gent barr		There's no way through.
burke		There's always a way...
agent feenstra		I'm out.
agent miles		Last one.
agent feenstra		I can't walk. If I lay down suppressing fire, maybe you can make it out of here.
agent miles		I die fighting or I don't die at all.
aline		You sure this is going to work?
aline		What is this place?
carnby		This is where it happened.
agent barr		Commander...
aline		Edward, look...
carnby		So it's a key.
burke		Two, we set enough C-4 to bury this place. Keep whatever's in there, down here for good.
carnby		The answers I've been looking for my whole life could be in there.
aline		Some doors are locked for a reason.
carnby		Barr... how much C-4 you got left?
agent barr		Enough to blow this place to...
hudgens		I'm afraid I can't allow that.
hudgens		Our early work was crude, I admit. But eventually we perfected the implant process. You were our last failure, Carnby. If you hadn't escaped, 713 never would've shut down the experiments. Burke's eyes flash with anger.
carnby		Aline...
hudgens		You couldn't have opened it anyway. Not without this...
line		These doors won't hold them for long
burke		Once we get out, we can remote detonate.
carnby		Look at the dust on the floor. This is where Hudgens got in.
carnby		Over there!
burke		The remote detonator's inactive. The signal can't get through.
carnby		We'll find a way.
urke		You saved my life, Carnby. I don't much like debts.
carnby		Burke!
aline		Edward... if he detonates those charges, we're all dead.
carnby		They were under us the whole time.
aline		Where are all the children?
carnby		Something's very wrong...
aline		Edward... what's going on?
carnby		Remember what Hudgens said? I was his last failure. He said he perfected the implant process.
aline		It can't be...
carnby		Then where the hell is everybody? Where's everybody gone?
aline		Yes Edward?
carnby		It's going to be a busy day.
****Dialogues from script :amadeus.txt****

old salieri		Mozart! Mozart! Mozart. Forgive me! Forgive your assassin! Mozart!
old salieri		Show some mercy! I beg you. I beg you! Show mercy to a guilty man!
valet		Open the door, Signore! Please! Be good now! We've brought you something special. Something you're going to love.
valet		Signore Salieri! Open the door. Come now. Be good!
old salieri		Mozart! Mozart! I confess it! Listen! I confess!
old salieri		Mozart! Mozart! I cannot bear it any longer! I confess! I confess what I did! I'm guilty! I killed you! Sir I confess! I killed you!
old salieri		Mozart, perdonami! Forgive your assassin! Piet! Piet! Forgive your assassin! Forgive me! Forgive! Forgive!
valet		 That's all right, Signore! He heard you! He forgave you! He wants you to go inside now and shut the window!
valet		Come on, Signore! Look what I have for you! I can't give it to you from down here, can I?
bystander		Who is that?
valet		No one, sir. He'll be all right. Poor man. He's a little unhappy, you know.
valet		Did he open?
valet		Here I am, Signore. Now open the door.
valet		Mmmm - this is good! This is the most delicious thing I ever ate, believe me! Signore, you don't know what you're missing! Mmmm!
valet		Now that's enough, Signore! Open!
valet		If you don't open this door, we're going to eat everything. There'll be nothing left for you. And I'm not going to bring you anything more.
doctor gulden		He's going to live. It's much harder to cut your throat than most people imagine.
doctor gulden		Here we are. Do you wish me to come in with you?
vogler		No, Doctor. Thank you.
vogler		Herr Salieri?
old salieri		What do you want?
vogler		I am Father Vogler. I am a Chaplain here. I thought you might like to talk to someone.
old salieri		About what?
vogler		You tried to take your life. You do remember that, don't you?
old salieri		So?
vogler		In the sight of God that is a sin.
old salieri		What do you want?
vogler		Do you understand that you have sinned? Gravely.
old salieri		Leave me alone.
vogler		I cannot leave alone a soul in pain.
old salieri		Do you know who I am? You never heard of me, did you?
vogler		That makes no difference. All men are equal in God's eyes.
old salieri		Are they?
vogler		Offer me your confession. I can offer you God's forgiveness.
old salieri		I do not seek forgiveness.
vogler		My son, there is something dreadful on your soul. Unburden it to me. I'm here only for you. Please talk to me.
old salieri		How well are you trained in music?
vogler		I know a little. I studied it in my youth.
old salieri		Where?
vogler		Here in Vienna.
old salieri		Then you must know this.
vogler		I can't say I do. What is it?
old salieri		I'm surprised you don't know. It was a very popular tune in its day. I wrote it. How about this?
old salieri		This one brought down the house when we played it first.
old salieri		 Well?
vogler		I regret it is not too familiar.
old salieri		Can you recall no melody of mine? I was the most famous composer in Europe when you were still a boy. I wrote forty operas alone. What about this little thing?
vogler		Oh, I know that! That's charming!  I didn't know you wrote that.
old salieri		I didn't. That was Mozart. Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. You know who that is?
vogler		Of course. The man you accuse yourself of killing.
old salieri		Ah - you've heard that?
vogler		All Vienna has heard that.
old salieri		 And do they believe it?
vogler		Is it true?
old salieri		Do you believe it?
vogler		Should I?
vogler		For God's sake, my son, if you have anything to confess, do it now! Give yourself some peace!
vogler		Do you hear me?
old salieri		He was murdered, Father! Mozart! Cruelly murdered.
vogler		 Yes? Did you do it?
old salieri		He was my idol! I can't remember a time when I didn't know his name! When I was only fourteen he was already famous. Even in Legnago - the tiniest town in Italy - I knew of him.
old salieri		Suddenly he was dead. Just like that! And my life changed forever. My mother said, Go. Study music if you really want to. Off with you! And off I went as quick as I could and never saw Italy again. Of course, I knew God had arranged it all; that was obvious. One moment I was a frustrated boy in an obscure little town. The next I was here, in Vienna, city of musicians, sixteen years old and studying under Gluck! Gluck, Father. Do you know who he was? The greatest composer of his time. And he loved me! That was the wonder. He taught me everything he knew. And when I was ready, introduced me personally to the Emperor! Emperor Joseph - the musical king!  Within a few years I was his court composer. Wasn't that incredible? Imperial Composer to His Majesty! Actually the man had no ear at all, but what did it matter? He adored my music, that was enough. Night after night I sat right next to the Emperor of Austria, playing duets with him, correcting the royal sight-reading. Tell me, if you had been me, wouldn't you have thought God had accepted your vow? And believe me, I honoured it. I was a model of virtue. I kept my hands off women, worked hours every day teaching students, many of them for free, sitting on endless committees to help poor musicians - work and work and work, that was all my life. And it was wonderful! Everybody liked me. I liked myself. I was the most successful musician in Vienna. And the happiest. Till he came. Mozart.
arco		Mozart is not here.
colloredo		Where is he?
arco		They're looking for him, Your Grace.
colloredo		 We'll start without him.
mozart		Miaouw! Miaouw! Mouse-wouse? It's Puss-wuss, fangs-wangs. Paws-claws. Pounce-bounce!
constanze		Stop it. Stop it!
constanze		Stop it!
mozart		I am! I am! I'm stopping it - slowly. You see! Look, I've stopped. Now we are going back.
constanze		No! No! No!
mozart		Yes! Back! Back! Listen - don't you know where you are?
constanze		Where?
mozart		We are in the Residence of the Fartsbishop of Salzburg.
constanze		Fartsbishop!
constanze		Your Grace, I've got something to tell you. I want to complain about this man.
mozart		Go ahead, tell him. Tell them all. They won't understand you anyway.
constanze		Why not?
mozart		Because here everything goes backwards. People walk backwards, dance backwards, sing backwards, and talk backwards.
constanze		That's stupid.
mozart		Why? People fart backwards.
constanze		Do you think that's funny?
mozart		Yes, I think it's brilliant. You've been doing it for years.
constanze		Oh, ha, ha, ha.
mozart		Sra-I'm-sick! Sra-I'm sick!
constanze		Yes, you are. You're very sick.
mozart		No, no. Say it backwards, shit-wit. Sra-I'm-sick Say it backwards!
constanze		 Sra-I'm-sick. Sick - kiss I'm - my Kiss my! Sra-I'm-sick - Kiss my arse!
mozart		Em iram! Em iram!
constanze		No, I'm not playing this game.
mozart		No, this is serious. Say it backwards.
constanze		No!
mozart		Just say it - you'll see. It's very serious. Em iram!  Em iram!
constanze		Iram - marry Em - marry me! No, no! You're a fiend. I'm not going to marry a fiend. A dirty fiend at that.
mozart		Ui-vol-i-tub!
constanze		Tub - but i-tub - but I vol - love but I love ui - You. I love you!
mozart		Tish-I'm tee. What's that?
constanze		What?
mozart		Tish-I'm-tee.
constanze		Eat
mozart		Yes.
constanze		Eat my - ah!
mozart		My music! They've started! They've started without me!
arco		Follow me, please. The Archbishop would like a word.
mozart		Certainly!
mozart		Well, I think that went off remarkably well, don't you?
arco		Indeed.
mozart		These Viennese certainly know good music when they hear it.
arco		His Grace is very angry with you.
mozart		What do you mean?
arco		You are to come in here and ask his pardon.
arco		Your Grace.
colloredo		Ah, Mozart. Why?
mozart		Why what, sir?
colloredo		Why do I have to be humiliated in front of my guests by one of my own servants?
mozart		Humiliated?
colloredo		How much provocation am I to endure from you? The more license I allow you, the more you take.
mozart		If His Grace is not satisfied with me, he can dismiss me.
colloredo		I wish you to return immediately to Salzburg. Your father is waiting for you there patiently. I will speak to you further when I come.
mozart		No, Your Grace! I mean with all humility, no. I would rather you dismissed me. It's obvious I don't satisfy.
colloredo		Then try harder, Mozart. I have no intention of dismissing you. You will remain in my service and learn your place. Go now.
mozart		Excuse me!
old salieri		Why?  Would God choose an obscene child to be His instrument? It was not to be believed! This piece had to be an accident. It had to be!
joseph		How good is he, this Mozart?
von swieten		He's remarkable, Majesty. I heard an extraordinary serious opera of his last month. Idomeneo, King of Crete.
von swieten		Tiresome?
von swieten		Majesty, I thought it the most promising work I've heard in years.
joseph		Ah-ha. Well then, we should make some effort to acquire him. We could use a good German composer in Vienna, surely?
von strack		I agree, Majesty, but I'm afraid it's not possible. The young man is still in the pay of the Archbishop.
joseph		Very small pay, I imagine. I'm sure he could be tempted with the right offer. Say, an opera in German for our National Theatre.
von swieten		Excellent, sire!
joseph		Ah-ha. What do you say, Chamberlain?
von strack		In my opinion, it is time we had a piece in our own language, sir. Plain German. For plain people.
joseph		Ah-ha. Kapellmeister?
bonno		 Majesty, I must agree with Herr Dirretore. Opera is an Italian art, solamente. German is - scusate - too bruta for singing, too rough.
joseph		Ah-ha. Court Composer, what do you say?
salieri		I think it is an interesting notion to keep Mozart in Vienna, Majesty. It should really infuriate the Archbishop beyond measure - if that is your Majesty's intention.
joseph		You are cattivo, Court Composer.  I want to meet this young man. Chamberlain, arrange a pleasant welcome for him.
von strack		Yes, sir.
joseph		Well. There it is.
salieri		Si.
salieri		Ah! Here she comes. Fraulein Lorl, good morning.
lorl		Good morning, sir.
salieri		What have you got for me today? Let me see.
salieri		Ah-ha! Siena macaroons - my favourites. Give my best thanks to the baker.
lorl		I will, sir.
salieri		Thank you. Are you well today, Fraulein Lorl?
lorl		Yes, thank you, sir.
salieri		Bene! Bene!
salieri		Grazie, Signore.
mozart		And the other one?
mozart		And the other one?
mozart		Oh, they're both so beautiful, I can't decide. Why don't I have two heads?
joseph		Good, good, good.
joseph		Good morning, gentlemen.
joseph		 Well, what do you have for me today?
von strack		Your Majesty, Herr Mozart -
joseph		Yes, what about him?
von strack		He's here.
joseph		Ah-ha. Well. There it is. Good.
salieri		Majesty, I hope you won't think it improper, but I have written a little March of Welcome in his honour.
joseph		What a charming idea. May I see?
salieri		 It's just a trifle, of course.
joseph		May I try it?
salieri		Majesty.
joseph		Delightful, Court Composer. Would you permit me to play it as he comes in?
salieri		You do me too much honour, Sire.
joseph		Let's have some fun.  Bring in Herr Mozart, please. But slowly, slowly. I need a minute to practice.
salieri		A-flat, Majesty.
joseph		Ah-ha!
majordomo		Herr Mozart.
von strack		Well done, Sire!
joseph		Gentlemen, gentlemen, a little less enthusiasm, I beg you. Ah, Mozart.
mozart		Your Majesty!
joseph		No, no, please! It is not a holy relic.  He was giving the most brilliant little concert here. As he got off the stool, he slipped and fell. My sister Antoinette helped him up herself, and do you know what he did? Jumped straight into her arms and said, Will you marry me, yes or no?
joseph		You know all these gentlemen, I'm sure.
joseph		The Baron Von Swieten.
von swieten		I'm a great admirer of yours, young man. Welcome.
mozart		Oh, thank you.
joseph		The Director of our Opera. Count Orsini-Rosenberg.
mozart		 Oh sir, yes! The honour is mine. Absolutely.
joseph		And here is our illustrious Court Composer, Herr Salieri.
salieri		 Finally! Such an immense joy. Diletto straordinario!
mozart		I know your work well, Signore. Do you know I actually composed some variations on a melody of yours?
salieri		Really?
mozart		Mio caro Adone.
salieri		Ah!
mozart		A funny little tune, but it yielded some good things.
joseph		And now he has returned the compliment. Herr Salieri composed that March of Welcome for you.
mozart		 Really? Oh, grazie, Signore! Sono commosso! E un onore per mo eccezionale. Compositore brilliante e famossissimo!
salieri		My pleasure.
joseph		Well, there it is. Now to business. Young man, we are going to commission an opera from you. What do you say?
mozart		Majesty!
joseph		 Did we vote in the end for German or Italian?
von strack		Did we?
von swieten		I don't think it was really decided, Director.
mozart		Oh, German! German! Please let it be German.
joseph		Why so?
mozart		Because I've already found the most wonderful libretto!
mozart		I - I don't think you have, Herr Director. Not yet. I mean, it's quite n - Of course, I'll show it to you immediately.
joseph		Well, what is it about? Tell us the story.
mozart		It's actually quite amusing, Majesty. It's set - the  whole thing is set in a - in a -
joseph		Yes, where?
mozart		In a Pasha's Harem, Majesty. A Seraglio.
joseph		Ah-ha.
mozart		Exactly.
mozart		Well not especially. It can be in Turkish, if you really want. I don't care.
von swieten		 My dear fellow, the language is not finally the point. Do you really think that subject is quite appropriate for a national theatre?
mozart		Why not? It's charming. I mean, I don't actually show concubines exposing their! their! It's not indecent!  It's highly moral, Majesty. It's full of proper German virtues. I swear it. Absolutely!
joseph		Well, I'm glad to hear that.
salieri		Excuse me, Sire, but what do you think these could be? Being a foreigner, I would love to learn.
joseph		Cattivo again, Court Composer. Well, tell him, Mozart. Name us a German virtue.
mozart		Love, Sire!
salieri		Ah, love! Well of course in Italy we know nothing about that.
mozart		No, I don't think you do. I mean watching Italian opera, all those male sopranos screeching. Stupid fat couples rolling their eyes about! That's not love - it's just rubbish.
mozart		Majesty, you choose the language. It will be my task to set it to the finest music ever offered a monarch.
joseph		Well, there it is. Let it be German.
joseph		Ah, this is yours.
mozart		Keep it, Sire, if you want to. It is already here in my head.
joseph		What? On one hearing only?
mozart		I think so, Sire, yes.
joseph		Show me.
mozart		 The rest is just the same, isn't it?
mozart		That really doesn't work, does it?
mozart		Did you try this? Wouldn't it be just a little more -?
mozart		Or this - yes, this! Better.
salieri		Grazie, Signore.
salieri		Yes?
lorl		Madame Cavalieri is here for her lesson, sir.
salieri		Bene.
cavalieri		 Maestro.
salieri		Good morning.
cavalieri		 Well? How do you like it? It's Turkish. My hairdresser tells me everything's going to be Turkish this year!
salieri		Really? What else did he tell you today? Give me some gossip.
cavalieri		Well, I heard you met Herr Mozart.
salieri		Oh? News travels fast in Vienna.
cavalieri		And he's been commissioned to write an opera. Is it true?
salieri		Yes.
cavalieri		Is there a part for me?
salieri		No.
cavalieri		How do you know?
salieri		Well even if there is, I don't think you want to get involved with this one.
cavalieri		Why not?
salieri		Well, do you know where it's set, my dear?
cavalieri		Where?
salieri		In a harem.
cavalieri		What's that?
salieri		A brothel.
cavalieri		Oh!
salieri		A Turkish brothel.
cavalieri		Turkish? Oh, if it's Turkish, that's different. I want to be in it.
salieri		My dear, it will hardly enhance your reputation to be celebrated throughout Vienna as a singing prostitute for a Turk.
cavalieri		Oh. Well perhaps you could introduce us anyway.
salieri		Perhaps.
cavalieri		What does he look like?
salieri		You might be disappointed.
cavalieri		Why?
salieri		Looks and talent don't always go together, Katherina.
cavalieri		 Looks don't concern me, Maestro. Only talent interests a woman of taste.
cavalieri		Since you are determined, Since you are determined, Calmly, with no ferment, Welcome - every pain and woe. Bind me then - compel me! Bind me then - compel me! Hurt me. Break me! Kill me! At last I shall be freed by death!
cavalieri		 Be freed at last by death! Be freed at last by death! At last I shall be freed By! Death!
old salieri		Understand, I was in love with the girl. Or at least in lust. I wasn't a saint. It took me the most tremendous effort to be faithful to my vow. I swear to you I never laid a finger on her. All the same, I couldn't bear to think of anyone else touching her - least of all the Creature.
joseph		Bravo, Madame. You are an ornament to our stage.
cavalieri		Majesty.
joseph		 And to you, Court Composer. Your pupil has done you great credit.
madame weber		Let us pass, please! Let us pass at once! We're with the Emperor.
flunky		I am sorry, Madame. It is not permitted.
madame weber		Do you know who I am?  This is my daughter. I am Frau Weber. We are favoured guests!
flunky		I am sorry, Madame, but I have my orders.
madame weber		Call Herr Mozart! You call Herr Mozart immediately! This is insupportable!
constanze		Mother, please!
madame weber		Go ahead, Constanze. Just ignore this fellow.  Go ahead, dear!
flunky		 I am sorry, Madame, but no! I cannot let anyone pass.
madame weber		Young man, I am no stranger to theatres. I'm no stranger to insolence!
joseph		Well, Herr Mozart! A good effort. Decidedly that. An excellent effort! You've shown us something quite new today.
mozart		It is new, it is, isn't it, Sire?
joseph		Yes, indeed.
mozart		And German?
joseph		Oh, yes. Absolutely. German. Unquestionably!
mozart		So then you like it? You really like it, Your Majesty?
joseph		Of course I do. It's very good. Of course now and then - just now and then - it gets a touch elaborate.
mozart		What do you mean, Sire?
joseph		Well, I mean occasionally it seems to have, how shall one say?  How shall one say, Director?
joseph		Exactly. Very well put. Too many notes.
mozart		I don't understand. There are just as many notes, Majesty, as are required. Neither more nor less.
joseph		My dear fellow, there are in fact only so many notes the ear can hear in the course of an evening. I think I'm right in saying that, aren't I, Court Composer?
salieri		Yes! yes! er, on  the whole, yes, Majesty.
mozart		 But this is absurd!
joseph		My dear, young man, don't take it too hard. Your work is ingenious. It's quality work. And there are simply too many notes, that's all. Cut a few and it will be perfect.
mozart		Which few did you have in mind, Majesty?
joseph		Well. There it is.
madame weber		Wolfi! Wolfi, my dear!
madame weber		Oh!
mozart		Majesty, this is Madame Weber. She is my landlady.
joseph		Enchanted, Madame.
madame weber		Oh, Sire! such an honour! And, and, and these are my dear daughters. This is Constanze. She is the fiancee of Herr Mozart.
joseph		Really? How delightful. May I ask when you marry?
mozart		Well - Well we haven't quite received my father's consent, Your Majesty. Not entirely. Not altogether.
joseph		Excuse me, but how old are you?
mozart		Twenty-six.
joseph		Well, my advice is to marry this charming young lady and stay with us in Vienna.
madame weber		You see? You see? I've told him that, Your Majesty, but he won't listen to me.
madame weber		Oh, Your Majesty, you give such wonderful - such impeccable - such royal advice. I - I - May I?
joseph		Well. There it is. Strack.
constanze		 Get some water!
mozart		Katherina! I'll tell you what I'm going to do. I'm going to write another aria for you. Something even more amazing for the second act. I have to get some water. Her mother is lying on the stage.
cavalieri		Don't bother!
mozart		What?
cavalieri		Don't bother.
mozart		I'll be right back.
constanze		Are you all right?
madame weber		Ah, what an evening! What a wise man we have for an Emperor. Oh, my children!  Now I want you to write your father exactly what His Majesty said.
mozart		You should really go home now, Frau Weber. Your carriage must be waiting.
madame weber		But aren't you taking us?
mozart		I have to talk to the singers.
madame weber		That's all right; we'll wait for you. Just don't take all night.
cavalieri		Did you know? Had you heard?
salieri		What?
cavalieri		The marriage!
salieri		Well, what does it matter to you?
cavalieri		Nothing! He can marry who he pleases. I don't give a damn.
cavalieri		How was I? Tell me honestly.
salieri		You were sublime.
cavalieri		What did you think of the music?
salieri		Extremely clever.
cavalieri		Meaning you didn't like it.
mozart		Oh - excuse me!
cavalieri		Is her mother still lying on the floor?
mozart		No, she's fine.
cavalieri		I'm so relieved.
salieri		Dear Mozart, my sincere congratulations.
mozart		Did you like it, then?
salieri		How could I not?
mozart		It really is the best music one can hear in Vienna today. Don't you agree?
cavalieri		Is she a good fuck?
mozart		What??
cavalieri		I assume she's the virtuoso in that department. There can't be any other reason you'd marry someone like that.
cavalieri		Come in!
constanze		Excuse me, Wolfi. Mama is not feeling very well. Can we leave now?
mozart		Of course.
cavalieri		No, no, no, no. You can't take him away now. This is his night. Won't you introduce us, Wolfgang?
mozart		Excuse us, Fraulein. Good night, Signore.
cavalieri		You really are full of surprises, aren't you? You are quite extraordinary, you little shit!
old salieri		It was incomprehensible. What was God up to? Here I was denying all my natural lust in order to deserve God's gift and there was Mozart indulging his in all directions - even though engaged to be married! - and no rebuke at all! Was it possible I was being tested? Was God expecting me to offer forgiveness in the face of every offense, no matter how painful? That was very possible. All the same, why him? Why use Mozart to teach me lessons in humility? My heart was filling up with such hatred for that little man. For the first time in my life I began to know really violent thoughts. I couldn't stop them.
vogler		Did you try?
old salieri		Every day. Sometimes for hours I would pray!
salieri		Please! Please! Send him away, back to Salzburg. For his sake as well as mine.
colloredo		No! I won't have him back.
leopold		But he needs to be here in Salzburg, Your Grace. He needs me and he needs you. Your protection, your understanding.
colloredo		Hardly.
leopold		Oh sir, yes! He's about to make the worst mistake of his life. Some little Viennese slut is trying to trick him into marriage. I know my son. He is too simple to see the trap - and there is no one there who really cares for him.
colloredo		I'm not surprised. Money seems to be more important to him than loyalty or friendship. He has sold himself to Vienna. Let Vienna look out for him.
leopold		Sir -
colloredo		Your son is an unprincipled, spoiled, conceited brat.
leopold		Yes, sir, that's the truth. But don't blame him. The fault is mine. I was too indulgent with him. But not again. Never again, I promise! I implore you - let me bring him back here. I'll make him give his word to serve you faithfully.
colloredo		And how will you make him keep it?
leopold		Oh, sir, he's never disobeyed me in anything. Please, Your Grace, give him one more chance.
colloredo		You have leave to try.
leopold		Oh, Your Grace - I thank Your Grace! I thank you!
mozart		I will.
priest		And will you, Constanze Weber, take this man, Wolfgang to be your lawful husband?
constanze		I will.
priest		I now pronounce you man and wife.
joseph		Good morning, Court Composer. This is my niece, the Princess Elizabeth.
salieri		Your Highness.
joseph		She has asked me to advise her on a suitable musical instructor. I think I've come up with an excellent idea.
salieri		Oh, Your Majesty, it would be such a tremendous honour!
joseph		I'm thinking about Herr Mozart. What is your view?
salieri		An interesting idea, Majesty. But -
joseph		Yes?
salieri		You already commissioned an opera from Mozart.
joseph		And the result satisfies.
salieri		Yes, of course. My concern is to protect you from any suspicion of favouritism.
joseph		Ah-ha. Favouritism. But I so want Mozart.
salieri		I'm sure there is a way, Majesty. Some kind of a little contest. I could perhaps put together a small Committee, and I could see to it naturally that it will select according to Your Majesty's wishes.
joseph		You please me, Court Composer. A very clever idea.
salieri		 Sire.
joseph		Well. There it is.
mozart		What is this, Herr Chamberlain?
von strack		What is what?
mozart		Why do I have to submit samples of my work to some stupid committee? Just to teach a sixteen-year-old girl.
von strack		Because His Majesty wishes it.
mozart		Is the Emperor angry with me?
von strack		On the contrary.
mozart		Then why doesn't he simply appoint me to the post?
von strack		Mozart, you are not the only composer in Vienna.
mozart		No, but I'm the best.
von strack		A little modesty would suit you better.
mozart		Who is on this committee?
von strack		Kapellmeister Bonno, Count Orsini- Rosenberg and Court Composer Salieri.
mozart		Naturally, the Italians! Of course! Always the Italians!
von strack		Mozart -
mozart		They hate my music. It terrifies them. The only sound Italians understand is banality. Tonic and dominant, tonic and dominant, from here to Resurrection!  Ba-ba! Ba-ba! Ba-ba! Ba-ba! Anything else is morbid.
von strack		Mozart -
mozart		Show them one interesting modulation and they faint. Ohime! Morbidezza! Morbidezza! Italians are musical idiots and you want them to judge my music!
von strack		Look, young man, the issue is simple. If you want this post, you must submit your stuff in the same way as all your colleagues.
mozart		Must I? Well, I won't! I tell you straight: I will not!
constanze		I think you're mad! You're really mad!
mozart		Oh, leave me alone.
constanze		One royal pupil and the whole of Vienna will come flocking. We'd be set up for life!
mozart		They'll come anyway. They love me here.
constanze		No, they will not. I know how things work in this city.
mozart		Oh yes? You always know everything.
constanze		Well, I'm not borrowing any more money from my mother, and that's that!
mozart		You borrowed money from your mother?
constanze		Yes!
mozart		Well, don't do that again!
constanze		How are we going to live, Wolfi? Do you want me to go into the streets and beg?
mozart		Don't be stupid.
constanze		All they want to see is your work. What's wrong with that?
mozart		Shut up! Just shut up! I don't need them.
constanze		This isn't pride. It's sheer stupidity!
salieri		Yes.
servant		Excuse me, sir, there is a lady who insists on talking to you.
salieri		Who is she?
servant		She didn't say. But she says it's urgent.
salieri		 Excuse me, my dear.
constanze		Excellency!
salieri		Madame. How can I help you?
salieri		Frau Mozart?
constanze		That's right, Your Excellency. I've come on behalf of my hus band. I'm - I'm bringing some samples of his work so he can be considered for the royal appointment.
salieri		How charming.  But why did he not come himself?
constanze		He's terribly busy, sir.
salieri		I understand.
salieri		I will look at them, of course, the moment I can. It will be an honour. Please give him my warmest.
constanze		Would it be too much trouble, sir, to ask you to look at them now? While I wait.
salieri		I'm afraid I'm not at leisure this very moment. Just leave them with me. I assure you they will be quite safe.
constanze		I - I really cannot do that, Your Excellency. You see, he doesn't know I'm here.
salieri		Really?
constanze		My husband is a proud man, sir. He would be furious if he knew I'd come.
salieri		Then he didn't send you?
constanze		No, sir. This is my own idea.
salieri		I see.
constanze		Sir, we really need this job. We're desperate. My husband spends far more than he can ever earn. I don't mean he's lazy - he's not at all - he works all day long. It's just! he's not practical. Money simply slips through his fingers, it's really ridiculous, Your Excellency. I know you help musicians. You're famous for it. Give him just this one post. We'd be forever indebted!
salieri		Let me offer you some refreshment. Do you know what these are?
salieri		Cappezzoli di Venere. Nipples of Venus. Roman chestnuts in brandied sugar. Won't you try one? They're quite surprising.
constanze		Oh! They're wonderful.
constanze		Thank you very much, Your Excellency.
salieri		Don't keep calling me that. It puts me at such a distance. I was not born a Court Composer, you know. I'm from a small town, just like your husband.
salieri		Are you sure you can't leave that music, and come back again? I have other things you might like.
constanze		That's very tempting, but it's impossible, I'm afraid. Wolfi would be frantic if he found those were missing. You see, they're all originals.
salieri		Originals?
constanze		Yes.
salieri		These are originals?
constanze		Yes, sir. He doesn't make copies.
old salieri		Astounding! It was actually beyond belief. These were first and only drafts of music yet they showed no corrections of any kind. Not one. Do you realize what that meant?
old salieri		He'd simply put down music already finished in his head. Page after page of it, as if he was just taking dictation. And music finished as no music is ever finished.
constanze		Is it no good?
salieri		It is miraculous.
constanze		Oh yes. He's really proud of his work.
constanze		So, will you help him?
salieri		Tomorrow night I dine with the Emperor. One word from me and the post is his.
constanze		Oh, thank you, sir!
salieri		Come back tonight.
constanze		Tonight?
salieri		Alone.
constanze		What for?
salieri		Some service deserves service in return. No?
constanze		What do you mean?
salieri		Isn't it obvious?
salieri		It's a post all Vienna seeks. If you want it for your husband, come tonight.
constanze		But! I'm a married woman!
salieri		Then don't. It's up to you. Not to be vague, that is the price.
salieri		Yes.
old salieri		Yes, Father. Yes! So much for my vow of chastity. What did it matter? Good, patient, hard-working, chaste - what did it matter? Had goodness made me a good composer? I realized it absolutely then - that moment: goodness is nothing in the furnace of art. And I was nothing to God.
vogler		 You cannot say that!
old salieri		No? Was Mozart a good man?
vogler		God's ways are not yours. And you are not here to question Him. Offer him the salt of penitence. He will give you back the bread of eternal life. He is all merciful. That is all you need to know.
old salieri		All I ever wanted was to sing to Him. That's His doing, isn't it? He gave me that longing - then made me mute. Why? Tell me that. If He didn't want me to serve Him with music, why implant the desire, like a lust in my body, then deny me the talent? Go on, tell me! Speak for Him!
vogler		My son, no one can speak for God.
old salieri		Oh? I thought you did so every day. So speak now. Answer me!
vogler		I do not claim to unravel the mysteries. I treasure them. As you should.
old salieri		 There is no God of Mercy, Father. Just a God of torture.
salieri		Dear God, enter me now. Fill me with one piece of true music. One piece with your breath in it, so I know that you love me. Please. Just one. Show me one sign of your favour, and I will show mine to Mozart and his wife. I will get him the royal position, and if she comes, I'll receive her with all respect and send her home in joy. Enter me! Enter me! Please! Te imploro.
servant		That lady is back, sir.
salieri		Show her in. Then go to bed.
constanze		Well, I'm here. My husband has gone to a concert. He didn't think I would enjoy it.
constanze		I do apologize for this afternoon. I behaved like a silly girl. Where shall we go?
salieri		What?
constanze		Should we stay here? It's a charming room. I love these candlesticks. Were they here earlier? I didn't notice them I suppose I was too nervous.
constanze		Wolfgang was given some candlesticks by King George in England, but they were only wood. Oh, excuse me. Let's not talk about him. What do you think of this? It's real lace. Brussels.
constanze		Well, it's much too good for every day. I keep saying to Wolfi, don't be so extravagant. Presents are lovely, but we can't afford them. It doesn't do any good. The more I tell him, the more he spends. Oh, excuse me! There I go again.
constanze		Do you still want to look at this? Or don't we need to bother anymore? I imagine we don't, really.
salieri		Go! Go! Go!
salieri		Show this woman out!
constanze		You shit! You shit! You rotten shit!
constanze		What are you staring at?
old salieri		Because You will not enter me, with all my need for you; because You scorn my attempts at virtue; because You choose for Your instrument a boastful, lustful, smutty infantile boy and give me for reward only the ability to recognize the Incarnation; because You are unjust, unfair, unkind, I will block You! I swear it! I will hinder and harm Your creature on earth as far as I am able. I will ruin Your Incarnation.
mozart		Stanzi! Stanzi! Stanzi-Manzi!
mozart		Sssh!
schikaneder		 Stanzi-Manzi-Banzi-Wanzi!
mozart		Sssh! Stay here.
schikaneder		 Sssh! You're dishgrashful!
mozart		 Stanzi? How's my mouse? Mouse-wouse? I'm back - puss-wuss is back!
mozart		Stanzi!
mozart		What's the matter? What is it? Stanzi!
mozart		Stop it now. Stop it. I've brought some friends to meet you. They're next door waiting. Do we have anything to eat? They're all starving.
constanze		Tell them to go away. I don't want to see anybody.
mozart		What's the matter with you?
constanze		Tell them to go!
mozart		Sssh. What is it? Tell me.
constanze		No!
mozart		Yes!
constanze		I love you! I love you!
constanze		I love you. Please stay with me. I'm frightened.
joseph		I don't think you understand me, Court Composer.
salieri		Majesty, I did. Believe me, it was a most agonizing. decision. But finally, I simply could not recommend Herr Mozart.
joseph		Why not?
salieri		Well, Sire, I made some inquiries in a routine way. I was curious to know why he had so few pupils. It is rather alarming.
joseph		Oh?
salieri		Majesty, I don't like to talk against a fellow musician.
joseph		Of course not.
salieri		I have to tell you, Mozart is not entirely to be trusted alone with young ladies.
joseph		Really?
salieri		As a matter of fact, one of my own pupils - a very young singer - told me she was - er - well!
joseph		Yes?
salieri		Molested, Majesty. Twice, in the course of the same lesson.
joseph		Ah-ha. Well. There it is.
servant		Sir, there is a Herr Mozart waiting for you in the salon.
salieri		What does he want?
servant		He didn't say, sir. I told him I didn't know when you would be back, but he insisted on waiting.
salieri		Come with me. And stay in the room.
salieri		Herr Mozart, what brings you here?
mozart		Your Excellency, you requested some specimens of my work. Here they are. I don't have to tell you how much I need your help. I truly appreciate your looking at these. I have pressures on me - financial pressures. As you know, I'm a married man now.
salieri		So you are. How is your pretty wife?
mozart		She is well. She is - well, actually, I'm about to become a father! She only told me last night. You are the first to know.
salieri		I'm flattered. And congratulations to you, of course.
mozart		So you see, this post is very important to me right now.
salieri		Why didn't you come to me yesterday, Mozart? This is a most painful situation. Yesterday I could have helped you. Today, I can't.
mozart		Why? Here is the music. It's here. I am submitting it humbly. Isn't that what you wanted?
salieri		I have just come from the palace. The post has been filled.
mozart		Filled? That's impossible! They haven't even seen my work. I need this post. Please, can't you help me? Please!
salieri		My dear Mozart, there is no one in the world I would rather help, but now it is too late.
mozart		Whom did they choose?
salieri		Herr Sommer.
mozart		Sommer? Herr Sommer? But the man's a fool! He's a total mediocrity.
salieri		No, no, no: he has yet to achieve mediocrity.
mozart		But I can't lose this post, I simply can't! Excellency, please. Let's go to the palace, and you can explain to the Emperor that Herr Sommer is an awful choice. He could actually do musical harm to the Princess!
salieri		An implausible idea. Between you and me, no one in the world could do musical harm to the Princess Elizabeth.
mozart		Look, I must have pupils. Without pupils I can't manage.
salieri		You don't mean to tell me you are living in poverty?
mozart		No, but I'm broke. I'm always broke. I don't know why.
salieri		It has been said, my friend, that you are inclined to live somewhat above your means.
mozart		How can anyone say that? We have no cook, no maid. We have no footman. Nothing at all!
salieri		How is that possible? You give concerts, don't you? I hear they are quite successful.
mozart		They're stupendously successful. You can't get a seat. The only problem is none will hire me. They all want to hear me play, but they won't let me teach their daughters. As if I was some kind of fiend. I'm not a fiend!
salieri		Of course not.
mozart		Do you have a daughter?
salieri		I'm afraid not.
mozart		Well, could you lend me some money till you have one? Then I'll teach her for free. That's a promise. Oh, I'm sorry. I'm being silly. Papa's right - I should put a padlock on my mouth. Seriously, is there any chance you could manage a loan? Only for six months, eight at most. After that I'll be the richest man in Vienna. I'll pay you back double. Anything. Name your terms. I'm not joking. I'm working on something that's going to explode like a bomb all over Europe!
salieri		Ah, how exciting! Tell me more.
mozart		I'd better not. It's a bit of a secret.
salieri		Come, come, Mozart; I'm interested. Truly.
mozart		Actually, it's a big secret. Oh, this is delicious! What is it?
salieri		Cream cheese mixed with granulated sugar and suffused with rum. Crema al Mascarpone.
mozart		Ah. Italian?
salieri		Forgive me. We all have patriotic feelings of some kind.
mozart		Two thousand, two hundred florins is all I need A hundred? Fifty?
salieri		What exactly are you working on?
mozart		I can't say. Really
salieri		I don't think you should become known in Vienna as a debtor, Mozart. However, I know a very distinguished gentleman I could recommend to you. And he has a daughter. Will that do?
schlumberg		Quiet! Quiet! Quiet! Down there, damn you.  Welcome to you. Pay no attention, they're impossible. Stop it, you willful things! Come this way. Just ignore them. They're perfectly harmless, just willful. I treat them just like my own children.
mozart		And which one of them do you want me to teach?
schlumberg		What? Ha-ha! That's funny - I like it. Which one, eh? You're a funny fellow.  Hannah! Come this way.
schlumberg		Hannah!
schlumberg		 You won't be teaching this one either. She's my wife.
mozart		 Madame.
schlumberg		This is Herr Mozart, my dear. The young man Herr Salieri recommended to teach our Gertrude. Where is she?
frau schlumberg		Upstairs.
schlumberg		Gertrude!
frau schlumberg		You can't be Herr Mozart!
mozart		I'm afraid I am.
schlumberg		Of course, it's him. Who do you think it is?
frau schlumberg		I've heard about you for ages! I thought you must be an old man.
schlumberg		Gertrude!
frau schlumberg		It's such an honour for us to have you here, Herr Mozart. And for Gertrude.
schlumberg		People who know say the girl's got talent. You must judge for yourself. If you think she stinks, say so.
frau schlumberg		Michael, please! I'm sure you will find her most willing, Herr Mozart. She's really very excited. She's been preparing all morning.
mozart		Really?
frau schlumberg		Ah, now! Here she comes.
mozart		Good morning, Fraulein Schlumberg.
schlumberg		Strudel, this is Herr Mozart. Say good morning.
frau schlumberg		 Perhaps a little refreshment first? A little coffee, or a little chocolate?
mozart		I'd like a little wine, if you have it.
frau schlumberg		Wine?
schlumberg		Quite right. He's going to need it.  Klaus! A bottle of wine. Prestissimo! Now let's go to it. I've been waiting all day for this.
schlumberg		 Especially you, Dudelsachs - not one sound from you.
schlumberg		Come on, then. Up and at it!
mozart		Now, please play me something. Just to give me an idea. Anything will do.
gertrude		 I don't want you to stay.
frau schlumberg		That's all right, dear. Just go ahead, as if we weren't here.
gertrude		But you are here.
schlumberg		Never mind, Strudel. It's part of music, getting used to an audience. Aren't I right, Herr Mozart?
mozart		Well, yes! on the whole. I suppose.  How long have you been playing, Fraulein?
frau schlumberg		Just one year.
mozart		Who was your teacher?
frau schlumberg		I was. But she quite outgrew the little I could show her.
mozart		Thank you, Madame.  Come on now - courage. Play me something you know.
mozart		Perhaps it would be better if we were left alone. I think we're both a little shy.
schlumberg		Nonsense. Strudel's not shy. She's just willful! You give into her now, you'll be sorry later. Strudel - play.
schlumberg		I said play!
frau schlumberg		Michael!
mozart		Perhaps if I were to play a little first, it might encourage the Fraulein.  Why don't you let me try the instrument? All right?
schlumberg		Stop that, Dudelsachs! Stop it at once!  Don't let him disturb you. He'll be all right. He's just a little willful too. Please, please - play. I beg you.
schlumberg		Stop it! STOP!
schlumberg		No, not you. I was talking to the dog. You keep playing. It's most important. He always howls when he hears music. We've got to break them of the habit. Play, please. Please!
schlumberg		That's it. Now keep going, just keep going.  Now you stop that noise, Dudelsachs, you stop it this instant! This instant, do you hear me? Keep going, Herr Mozart, that's it. Go on, go on!
schlumberg		Good, good, good! Very good dog! Very, very good Dudelsachs.  Quick, quick, dear, bring his biscuit.
schlumberg		Now guess who's going to get a nice reward? Clever, clever Dudi.
schlumberg		It's a miracle, Herr Mozart!
mozart		 Well, I'm a good teacher. The next time you wish me to instruct another of your dogs, please let me know. Goodbye, Fraulein, goodbye, Madame! goodbye, Sir!
frau schlumberg		What a strange young man.
schlumberg		Yes. He is a little strange.
mozart		Papa! PAPA!
mozart		Why are you here?
leopold		Am I not welcome?
mozart		Of course, welcome! Welcome ten thousand times. Papa! my Papa!
leopold		You're very thin. Does she not feed you, this wife of yours?
mozart		Feed? Well, of course she feeds me. She stuffs me like a goose all day long. She's the best cook in the world. I mean, since Mama. Just wait, you'll see.
leopold		Is she not here?
mozart		I don't know. Stanzi? Stanzi!
leopold		Do you always live like this?
mozart		Oh, yes. Oh, I mean no - not exactly like this. I mean today - just today, Stanzi - I remember now. She had to go - yes! She had to help her mother. Yes, she's like that. Her mother's a very sweet woman, you'll see.
mozart		Oh! I didn't know you were home. Stanzi, this is my father.
mozart		We'll wait, we'll wait. Why don't you get up now, darling?
mozart		She's very tired, poor creature. You know me: I'm a real pig. It's not so easy cleaning up after me.
leopold		Don't you have a maid?
mozart		Oh we could, if we wanted to, but Stanzi won't hear of it. She wants to do everything herself.
leopold		How is your financial situation?
mozart		It couldn't be better.
leopold		That's not what I hear.
mozart		What do you mean? It's wonderful. Really, it's - it's marvelous! People love me here.
leopold		They say you're in debt.
mozart		Who? Who says that? Now that's a malicious lie!
leopold		How many pupils do you have?
mozart		Pupils?
leopold		Yes.
mozart		Yes.
leopold		How many?
mozart		I don't know. It's not important. I mean, I don't want pupils. They get in the way. I've got to have time for composition.
leopold		Composition doesn't pay. You know that.
mozart		This one will.
leopold		What's that?
mozart		Oh, let's not talk about it.
leopold		Why not?
mozart		It's a secret.
leopold		You don't have secrets from me.
mozart		It's too dangerous, Papa. But they're going to love it. Ah, there she is!
mozart		My Stanzi - look at her! Isn't she beautiful? Come on now, confess, Papa. Could you want a prettier girl for a daughter?
constanze		Stop it, Wolfi. I look dreadful. Welcome to our house, Herr Mozart.
mozart		He's not Herr Mozart. Call him Papa.
leopold		I see that you're expecting.
constanze		Oh, yes.
leopold		When, may I ask?
constanze		In three months! Papa.
mozart		Isn't that marvelous? We're delighted.
leopold		Why didn't you mention it in your letters?
mozart		Didn't I? I thought I did. I'm sure I did.
constanze		May I offer you some tea, Herr Mozart?
mozart		Tea? Who wants tea? Let's go out! This calls for a feast. You don't want tea, Papa. Let's go dancing. Papa loves parties, don't you?
constanze		Wolfi!
mozart		What? How can you be so boring? Tea!
constanze		Wolfi, I think your father's tired. I'll cook us something here.
leopold		Thank you. That'll be fine. Don't spend any money on me.
mozart		Why not? Oh, come, Papa! What better way could I spend it than on you? My kissable, missable, suddenly visible Papa!
schikaneder		No, no! You both lost. You both lost. You both have to forfeit. And the penalty is you must exchange your wigs.
leopold		No, please! This is ridiculous! No, please!
leopold		No, really!
mozart		 This is just a game, Papa.
constanze		This is just a game, Papa!
bystanders		This is just a game, Papa!
mozart		Oh no, Papa, please! Don't spoil the fun. Come on. Here, take mine.
schikaneder		Herr Mozart, why don't you name your son's penalty?
mozart		Yes, Papa, name it. Name it. I'll do anything you say!
leopold		I want you to come back with me to Salzburg, my son.
schikaneder		What did he say? What did he say?
mozart		Papa, the rule is you can only give penalties that can be performed in the room.
leopold		I'm tired of this game. Please play without me.
mozart		But my penalty. I've got to have a penalty.
schikaneder		I've got a good one. I've got the perfect one for you. Come over here.
schikaneder		Now, I want you to play our tune - sitting backwards.
mozart		Oh, that's really too easy. Any child can do that.
schikaneder		And a fugue in the manner of Sebastian Bach.
guests		Another! Do another! Someone else.
mozart		Give me a name. Who shall I do? Give me a name.
guests		Gluck! Haydn! Frederic Handel!
constanze		Salieri! Do Salieri!
mozart		Now that's hard. That's very hard. For Salieri one has to face the right way around.
old salieri		Go on. Mock me. Laugh, laugh!
constanze		 Wolfi! Wolfgang!
mozart		What is it?
constanze		There's a young girl to see you.
mozart		What does she want?
constanze		I don't know.
mozart		Well, ask her!
constanze		She won't talk to me. She says she has to speak to you.
mozart		Oh, damn!
mozart		Yes?
lorl		Are you Herr Mozart?
mozart		That's right.
lorl		My name is Lorl, sir. I'm a maidservant. I was asked to come here and offer my services to you.
mozart		What?
lorl		They'll be paid for by a great admirer or yours who wishes to remain anon - anonymous.
constanze		What do you mean? What admirer?
lorl		I can't tell you that, ma'am.
mozart		Are you saying that someone is paying you to be our maid and doesn't want us to know who he is?
lorl		Yes. I can live in or out just as you wish.
mozart		Papa, is this your idea?
leopold		Mine?
mozart		Are you playing a trick on me?
leopold		I never saw this girl in my life.  Is this a kind of joke?
lorl		Not at all, sir. And I was told to wait for an answer.
leopold		Young woman, this won't do at all. My son can't possibly accept such an offer, no matter how generous, unless he knows who is behind it.
lorl		But I really can't tell you, sir.
leopold		Oh, this is ridiculous.
constanze		What is ridiculous? Wolfi has many admirers in Vienna. They love him here. People send us gifts all the time.
leopold		But you can't take her without reference. It's unheard of!
constanze		Well, this is none of your business.  Whoever sent you is going to pay, no?
lorl		That's right, ma'am.
leopold		So now we are going to let a perfect stranger into the house?
constanze		Who is we? Who is letting who?  Could you please wait outside?
lorl		Yes, ma'am.
constanze		Look, old man, you stay out of this. We spend a fortune on you, more than we can possibly afford, and all you do is criticize, morning to night. And then you think you can -
mozart		Stanzi!
constanze		No, it's right he should hear. I'm sick to death of it. We can't do anything right for you, can we?
leopold		Never mind. You won't have to do anything for me ever again. I'm leaving!
mozart		Papa!
leopold		Don't worry, I'm not staying here to be a burden.
mozart		No one calls you that.
leopold		She does. She says I sleep all day.
constanze		And so you do! The only time you come out is to eat.
leopold		And what do you expect? Who wants to walk out into a mess like this every day?
constanze		Oh, now I'm a bad housekeeper!
leopold		So you are! The place is a pigsty all the time.
constanze		 Do you hear him? Do you?
constanze		 When can you start?
lorl		Right away, ma'am.
constanze		Good! Come in. You'll start with that room there.  It's filthy!
leopold		Sorry, sorry! I'm sorry I spoke! I'm just a provincial from Salzburg. What do I know about smart Vienna? Parties all night, every night. Dancing and drinking like idiot children!
lorl		They're out every night, sir. Till all hours.
lorl		 Oh, thank you, sir.
salieri		Do any pupils come to the house?
lorl		Not that I've seen.
salieri		Then how does he pay for all this? Does he work at all?
lorl		Oh, yes, sir, all day long. He never leaves the house until evening. He just sits there, writing and writing. He doesn't even eat.
salieri		Really? What is it he's writing?
lorl		Oh, I wouldn't know that, sir.
salieri		Of course not. You're a good girl. You're very kind to do this. Next time you're sure they'll be out of the house, let me know, will you?
lorl		Oh, thank you, sir!
lorl		I think I've found out about the money, sir.
salieri		Yes what?
lorl		He kept seven snuff boxes in here. I could swear they were all gold. And now look there's only one left. And inside, sir, look - I counted them - tickets from the pawnshop. Six of them.
salieri		Where does he work?
lorl		In there, sir.
joseph		Bravo, Mozart. Most charming. Yes, indeed. Clever man.
mozart		Thank you, Sire!
von swieten		Well done, Mozart. Really quite fine.
mozart		Baron!
mozart		Majesty, may I ask you to do me the greatest favour?
joseph		What is it?
mozart		May I introduce my father? He is on a short visit here and returning very soon to Salzburg. He would so much like to kiss your hand. It would make his whole stay so memorable for him.
joseph		Ah! By all means.
leopold		Your Majesty.
joseph		Good evening.  We have met before, Herr Mozart.
leopold		That's right, Your Majesty. Twenty years ago. No, twenty-two! twenty- three! And I remember word for word what you said to me. You said - you said --
joseph		Bravo?
leopold		No! Yes, 'bravo,' of course 'bravo'! Everybody always says 'bravo' when Wolfi plays. Like the King of England. When we played for the King of England, he got up at the end and said, 'Bravo! Bravo! Bravo!' three times. Three bravo's. And the Pope four! Four bravo's from the Holy Father, and one 'bellissimo.'
mozart		Father -
leopold		Hush! I'm talking to His Majesty. Your Majesty, I wish to express only one thing - that you who are the Father of us all, could teach our children the gratitude they owe to fathers. It is not for nothing that the Fifth Commandment tells us: 'Honour your Father and Mother, that your days may be long upon the earth.'
joseph		Ah-ha. Well. There it is.
salieri		I've just learned something that might be of interest to you, Herr Director.
salieri		Mozart is writing a new opera. An Italian opera.
bonno		Aie!
salieri		And that's not all. He has chosen for his subject, Figaro. The Marriage of Figaro.
salieri		Exactly.
salieri		Yes.
bonno		What is this Marriage of Figaro?
bonno		Hah!
salieri		I've seen the manuscript.
salieri		Never mind.
von strack		I know we banned this play, but frankly I can't remember why. Can you refresh my memory, Herr Director?
von strack		Oh yes, yes. And that was?
von strack		Ah.
lackey		Herr Mozart.
joseph		Sit down, gentlemen, please.
joseph		Mozart, are you aware I have declared the French play of Figaro unsuitable for our theatre?
mozart		Yes, Sire.
joseph		Yet we hear you are making an opera from it. Is this true?
mozart		Who told you this, Majesty?
joseph		It is not your place to ask questions. Is it true?
mozart		Well, yes, I admit it is.
joseph		Would you tell me why?
mozart		Well, Majesty, it is only a comedy.
mozart		But, Your Majesty -
joseph		 Mozart, I am a tolerant man. I do not censor things lightly. When I do, I have good reason. Figaro is a bad play. It stirs up hatred between the classes. In France it has caused nothing but bitterness. My own dear sister Antoinette writes me that she is beginning to be frightened of her own people. I do not wish to see the same fears starting here.
mozart		Sire, I swear to Your Majesty, there's nothing like that in the story. I have taken out everything that could give offense. I hate politics.
joseph		I think you are rather innocent, my friend. In these dangerous times I cannot afford to provoke our nobles or our people simply over a theatre piece.
mozart		But, Majesty, this is just a frolic. It's a piece about love.
joseph		Ah, love again.
mozart		But it's new, it's entirely new. It's so new, people will go mad for it. For example, I have a scene in the second act - it starts as a duet, just a man and wife quarreling. Suddenly the wife's scheming little maid comes in unexpectedly - a very funny situation. Duet turns into trio. Then the husband's equally screaming valet comes in. Trio turns into quartet. Then a stupid old gardener - quartet becomes quintet, and so on.  On and on, sextet, septet, octet! How long do you think I can sustain that?
joseph		I have no idea.
mozart		Guess! Guess, Majesty. Imagine the longest time such a thing could last, then double it.
joseph		Well, six or seven minutes! maybe eight!
mozart		Twenty, sire! How about twenty? Twenty minutes of continuous music. No recitatives.
von swieten		Mozart -
mozart		 Sire, only opera can do this. In a play, if more than one person speaks at the same time, it's just noise. No one can understand a word. But with music, with music you can have twenty individuals all talking at once, and it's not noise - it's a perfect harmony. Isn't that marvelous?
von swieten		Mozart, music is not the issue here. No one doubts your talent. It is your judgment of literature that's in question. Even with the politics taken out, this thing would still remain a vulgar farce. Why waste your spirit on such rubbish?  Surely you can choose more elevated themes?
mozart		Elevated? What does that mean? Elevated! The only thing a man should elevate is - oh, excuse me. I'm sorry. I'm stupid. But I am fed up to the teeth with elevated things! Old dead legends! How can we go on forever writing about gods and legends?
von swieten		 Because they do. They go on forever - at least what they represent. The eternal in us, not the ephemeral. Opera is here to ennoble us. You and me, just as much as His Majesty.
bonno		Bello! Bello, Barone. Veramente.
mozart		Oh, bello, bello, bello! Come on now, be honest. Wouldn't you all rather listen to your hairdressers than Hercules? Or Horatius? Or Orpheus? All those old bores! people so lofty they sound as if they shit marble!
von swieten		What?
von strack		Govern your tongue, sir! How dare you?
mozart		Forgive me, Majesty. I'm a vulgar man. But I assure you, my music is not.
joseph		You are passionate, Mozart! But you do not persuade.
mozart		Sire, the whole opera is finished. Do you know how much work went into it?
bonno		His Majesty has been more than patient, Signore.
mozart		How can I persuade you if you won't let me show it?
mozart		Just let me tell you how it begins.
von strack		Herr Mozart -
mozart		May I just do that, Majesty? Show you how it begins? Just that?
joseph		Please.
mozart		Look! There's a servant, down on his knees. Do you know why? Not from any oppression. No, he's simply measuring a space. Do you know what for? His bed. His wedding bed to see if it will fit.
salieri		Incredible.
bonno		Si, si! Veramente.
salieri		Well, gentlemen, so be it. In that case I think we should help Mozart all we can and do our best to protect him against the Emperor's anger.
salieri		About the ballet.
salieri		Excuse me - didn't His Majesty specifically forbid ballet in his opera?
salieri		Yes, in the third act.
mozart		Certainly, Herr Director.
mozart		Five minutes, please!
mozart		Yes, but this is not a ballet. This is a dance at Figaro's wedding.
mozart		But surely the Emperor didn't mean to prohibit dancing when it's part of the story.
mozart		What are you doing?
mozart		What are you doing, Herr Director?
servant		Herr Mozart.
mozart		Please! Please. I've no one else to turn to. Please!
salieri		Wolfgang, what is it? Sta calmo, per favore. What's the matter?
mozart		It's unbelievable! The Director has actually ripped out a huge section of my music. Pages of it.
salieri		Really? Why?
mozart		I don't know. They say I've got to re-write the opera, but it's perfect as it is. I can't rewrite what's perfect. Can't you talk to him?
salieri		Why bother with Orsini-Rosenberg? He's obviously no friend of yours.
mozart		Oh, I could kill him! I mean really kill him. I actually threw the entire opera on the fire, he made me so angry!
salieri		You burned the score?
mozart		Oh no! My wife took it out in time.
salieri		How fortunate.
mozart		It's not fair that a man like that has power over our work.
salieri		But there are those who have power over him. I think I'll take this up with the Emperor.
mozart		Oh, Excellency, would you?
salieri		With all my heart, Mozart.
mozart		Thank you! Oh, thank you.
salieri		 No, no, no, Herr Mozart, please. It's not a holy relic.
old salieri		I'm sure I don't need to tell you I said nothing whatever to the Emperor. I went to the theatre ready to tell Mozart that His Majesty had flown into a rage when I mentioned the ballet, when suddenly, to my astonishment, in the middle of the third act, the Emperor - who never attended rehearsals - suddenly appeared.
joseph		What is this? I don't understand. Is it modern?
bonno		Majesty, the Herr Director, he has removed a balleto that would have occurred at this place.
joseph		Why?
joseph		Do you like this, Salieri?
salieri		It is not a question of liking, Your Majesty. Your own law decrees it, I'm afraid.
joseph		Well, look at them.
joseph		No, no, no! This is nonsense. Let me hear the scene with the music.
joseph		Oblige me.
mozart		Oh yes, certainly. Certainly, Herr Director!
mozart		Ladies and gentlemen, we're going from where we stopped. The Count: Anches so. Right away, please!
joseph		 What I hoped by that edict, Director, was simply to prevent hours of dancing like in French opera. There it is endless, as you know.
old salieri		 So Figaro was produced in spite of me. And in spite of me, a wonder was revealed. One of the true wonders of art. The restored third act was bold and brilliant. The fourth was a miracle.
old salieri		And then suddenly - a miracle!
old salieri		Father, did you know what that meant? With that yawn I saw my defeat turn into a victory. And Mozart was lucky the Emperor only yawned once. Three yawns and the opera would fail the same night; two yawns, within a week at most. With one yawn the composer could still get -
mozart		Nine performances! Nine! That's all it's had - and withdrawn.
salieri		I know; it's outrageous. Still, if the public doesn't like one's work one has to accept the fact gracefully.
mozart		But what is it they don't like?
salieri		Well, I can speak for the Emperor. You made too many demands on the royal ear. The poor man can't concentrate for more than an hour and you gave him four.
mozart		What did you think of it yourself? Did you like it at all?
salieri		I think it's marvelous. Truly.
mozart		It's the best opera yet written. I know it! Why didn't they come?
salieri		I think you overestimate our dear Viennese, my friend. Do you know you didn't even give them a good bang at the end of songs so they knew when to clap?
mozart		I know, I know. Perhaps you should give me some lessons in that.
salieri		 I wouldn't presume. All the same, if it wouldn't be imposing, I would like you to see my new piece. It would be a tremendous honour for me.
mozart		Oh no, the honour would be all mine.
salieri		 Grazie, mio caro, Wolfgang!
mozart		Grazie, a lei, Signor Antonio!
old salieri		 Would he actually tell me my music had moved him? Was I really going to hear that from his own lips? I found myself actually hurrying the tempo of the finale.
mozart		 Well?
schikaneder		 Sublime! Utterly sublime!
mozart		That kind of music should be punishable by death.
joseph		I believe that is the best opera yet written, my friends. Salieri, you are the brightest star in the musical firmament. You do honour to Vienna and to me.
salieri		Mozart. It was good of you to come.
mozart		How could I not?
salieri		Did my work please you?
mozart		How could it not, Excellency?
salieri		Yes?
mozart		I never knew that music like that was possible.
salieri		You flatter me.
mozart		Oh no! One hears such sounds and what can one say, but - Salieri!
mozart		Oh. Everybody's here! We've got guests. Good. I've brought some more.
mozart		We'll have a little party. Come in. Come in. You know Herr Schikaneder?  This is! a very nice girl.
constanze		 Wolfi.
mozart		Yes, my love?
constanze		These gentlemen are from Salzburg.
mozart		Salzburg.  We were just talking about Salzburg.  If you've come from my friend the Fartsbishop, you've arrived at just the right moment. Because I've got good news for him. I'm done with Vienna. It's over, finished, done with! Done with! Done with!
constanze		Wolfi! Your father is dead.
mozart		What?
constanze		Your father is dead.
the commendatore		 Don Giovanni!
old salieri		Now a madness began in me. The madness of a man splitting in half. Through my influence I saw to it Don Giovanni was played only five times in Vienna. But in secret I went to every one of those five - all alone - unable to help myself, worshipping sound I alone seemed to hear.
emmanuel schikaneder		Impresario de luxe PRESENTS The Celebrated SCHIKANEDER TROUPE OF PLAYERS IN An Evening of PARODY Music!  Mirth!  Magic! ALL SONGS AND SPEECHES WRITTEN BY EMMANUEL SCHIKANEDER who personally will appear in every scene!
schikaneder		Who is it?
schikaneder		C-c-c-come in!
commendatore		 Don Giovannnnnnnnnni!
commendatore		Down! Down!
commendatore		I'm here! I'm here!
commendatore		 Don Giovannnnnnnni!
schikaneder		Who the devil are you? What do you want?
commendatore		 I've come to dinnnnnner!
schikaneder		Dinner? How dare you? I am a nobleman. I only dine with people of my own height.
commendatore		Are you drunk? You invited me. And my horse. Here he is. Ottavio!
commendatore		Whoa! Whoa! Stop it!
first lady		 Be careful!
second lady		 Be careful!
third lady		 Be careful!
commendatore		 Leave me alone! Stop it! I'm a famous horseman.
ottavio		And I'm a famous horse!
first lady		 He's adorable!
second lady		 Adorable!
third lady		 Adorable!
three ladies		 Give me your hoof, my darling, And I'll give you my heart! Take me to your stable, And never more we'll part!
ottavio		 I'm shy and very bashful. I don't know what to say.
three ladies		 Don't hesitate a second. Just answer yes and neigh.
commendatore		 Stop it. What are you doing? Remember who you are! You're a horse and they are whores.
schikaneder		 This is ridiculous. I won't have any of it. You're turning my house into a circus!
schikaneder		 Shut up. Women, women, women! I'm sick to death of them.
soprano		 Dash me! Bash me! Lash me! Flay me! Slay me! At last I will be freed by death!
commendatore		Shut up.
soprano		 Kill me! Kill me! Kill me! Kill me! At last I shall be freed by death. At last I shall be freed by dea -
eight dwarves		 We're going to make a soprano stew! We're going to make a soprano stew! And when you make a soprano stew! Any stupid soprano will do! Any stew- stew-stew-stew-stew! Any stewpid soprano will do!
first lady		 Behold!
second lady		 Behold!
third lady		 Behold!
commendatore		 How long does it take to cook a soprano?
dwarves		 Five hours, five minutes, five seconds.
commendatore		 I can't wait that long. I'm starving!
ottavio		 So am I.
schikaneder		 In the pot, I have got a good dinner. Not a sausage or stew, but a singer. Not a sausage or stew but a singer. Is the treat that I'll eat for my meat!
commendatore		Oh shut up. I'm sick to death of that tune.
commendatore		Shut up. I'm sick of that one too.
commendatore		And that one, too!
soprano		 Oil me! Broil me! Boil me!
soprano		 Soil me! Foil me! Spoil me!
horse		I can't eat her. Sopranos give me hiccups. I want some hay!
first lady		 Hey!
second lady		 Hey!
third lady		 Hey!
schikaneder		Hey what?
commendatore		Shut up.
schikaneder		Leporello! We want some hay - prestissimo! Leporello - where are you?
first lady		 Behold!
second lady		 Behold!
third lady		 Behold!
commendatore		 Hey! Hey! Watch out!
commendatore		Whoa! Whoa, Ottavio! Whoa!
schikaneder		Well, how do you like that?
mozart		Wonderful!  He liked the monkey, didn't you?
schikaneder		Yes, well, it's all good fun.
mozart		I liked the horse.
schikaneder		Isn't he marvelous? He cost me a bundle, that horse, but he's worth it. I tell you, if you'd played Don Giovanni here it would have been a great success. I'm not joking. These people aren't fools. You could do something marvelous for them.
mozart		I'd like to try them someday. I'm not sure I'd be much good at it.
schikaneder		'Course you would. You belong here, my boy, not the snobby Court. You could do anything you felt like here - the more fantastic the better! That's what people want, you know: fantasy. You do a big production, fill it with beautiful magic tricks and you'll be absolutely free to do anything you want. Of course, you'd have to put a fire in it, because I've got the best fire machine in the city and a big flood - I can do you the finest water effects you ever saw in your life. Oh, and a few trick animals. You'd have to use those.
mozart		Animals?
schikaneder		I tell you I picked up a snake in Dresden last week - twelve foot long  - folds up to six inches, just like a paper fan. It's a miracle.
schikaneder		I'm serious. You write a proper part for me with a couple of catchy songs, I'll guarantee you'll have a triumph- de-luxe. Mind you, it'll have to be in German.
mozart		German!
schikaneder		Of course! What else do you think they speak here?
mozart		No, no, I love that. I'd want it to be in German. I haven't done anything in German since Seraglio.
schikaneder		So there you are. What do you say?
constanze		How much will you pay him?
schikaneder		Ah. Well. Ah,  I see you've got your manager with you. Well, Madame, how about half the receipts?
mozart		Half the receipts! Stanzi!
constanze		I'm talking about now. How much will you give him now? Down payment?
schikaneder		Down payment? Who do you think I am? The Emperor? Whoops, I have to go.
schikaneder		Stay where you are. You're going to like this next one. We'll speak again. Triumph-de-luxe, my boy!
constanze		You're not going to do this?
mozart		Why not? Half the house!
constanze		When? We need money now. Either he pays now, or you don't do it.
mozart		Oh, Stanzi.
constanze		I don't trust this man. And I didn't like what he did with your opera. It was common.
mozart		 Well, you liked it, didn't you? Monkey-flunki-punki.
constanze		Half the house! You'll never see a penny. I want it here, in my hand.
mozart		 Stanzi-manzi, I'll put it in your hand!
constanze		Shut up! I'll not let you put anything in my hand until I see some money.
schlumberg		Herr Mozart. What a surprise. What can I do for you?
mozart		Is my pupil still anxious to learn the art of music?
schlumberg		Well, your pupil is married and living in Mannheim, young man.
mozart		Really? Perhaps your dear wife might care to profit from my instruction?
schlumberg		What is this, Mozart? What's the matter with you?
mozart		Well. Since it appears nobody is eager to hire my services, could you favour me with a little money instead?
schlumberg		What for?
mozart		If a man cannot earn, he must borrow.
schlumberg		Well, this is hardly the way to go about it.
mozart		No doubt, sir. But I am endowed with talent, and you with money. If I offer mine, you should offer yours.
schlumberg		I'm sorry. No.
mozart		Please. I'll give it back, I promise. Please, sir.
schlumberg		My answer is no, Mozart.
mozart		Please. Please. Please. Please. Please. Please.
von swieten		 This is embarrassing, you know. You introduced Mozart to some of my friends and he's begging from practically all of them. It has to stop.
salieri		I agree, Baron.
von swieten		Can't you think of anyone who might commission some work from him? I've done my best. I got him to arrange some Bach for my Sunday concerts. He got a fee - what I could afford. Can't you think of anyone who might do something for him?
salieri		No, Baron, no. I'm afraid Mozart is a lost cause. He has managed to alienate practically the whole of Vienna. He is constantly drunk. He never pays his debts. I can't think of one person to whom I dare recommend him.
von swieten		How sad. It's tragic, isn't it? Such a talent.
salieri		Indeed. Just a moment - as a matter of fact I think I do know someone who could commission a work from him. A very appropriate person to do so. Yes.
salieri		Herr Mozart?
salieri		I have come to commission work from you.
mozart		What work?
salieri		A Mass for the dead.
mozart		What dead? Who is dead?
salieri		A man who deserved a Requiem Mass and never got one.
mozart		Who are you?
salieri		I am only a messenger. Do you accept? You will be paid well.
mozart		How much?
salieri		Fifty ducats. Another fifty when I have the Mass. Do you accept?
mozart		How long will you give me?
salieri		Work fast. And be sure to tell no one what you do. You will see me again soon.
constanze		Wolfi? Wolfi!
constanze		Who was that?
mozart		No one.
constanze		I heard voices.
constanze		What's the matter?
constanze		What's that? Oh!  Who gave you this? How much is it? Wolfi, who gave you this?
mozart		I'm not telling you.
constanze		Why not?
mozart		You'd think I was mad.
old salieri		My plan was so simple, it terrified me. First I must get the Death Mass and then achieve the death.
vogler		What?
old salieri		His funeral - imagine it! The Cathedral, all Vienna sitting there. His coffin, Mozart's little coffin in the middle. And suddenly in that silence, music. A divine music bursts out over them all, a great Mass of Death: Requiem Mass for Wolfgang Mozart, composed by his devoted friend Antonio Salieri. What sublimity! What depth! What passion in the music! Salieri has been touched by God at last. And God, forced to listen. Powerless - powerless to stop it. I at the end, for once, laughing at Him. Do you understand? Do you?
vogler		Yes.
old salieri		The only thing that worried me was the actual killing. How does one do that? How does one kill a man? It's one thing to dream about it. It's very different when you have to do it, with your own hands.
constanze		Wolfi. Wolfi!
mozart		No. Don't answer it!
constanze		Why?
mozart		Tell him I'm not here. Tell him I'm working on it. Come back later.
schikaneder		Am I interrupting something?
constanze		Not at all.
schikaneder		 Where's our friend?
constanze		He's not in. But he's working on it. He said to tell you.
schikaneder		I hope so. I need it immediately.
schikaneder		Is he happy with it?
schikaneder		Is this it?
schikaneder		What the devil is this? Requiem Mass? Does he think I'm in the funeral business?
mozart		Leave that alone!
schikaneder		Wolfi!
mozart		Put it down!
schikaneder		What is this?
mozart		Put it down, I said! It's nothing for you.
schikaneder		Oh! I'm sorry! I'm sorry! What have you got for me? Is it finished?
mozart		What?
schikaneder		What? The vaudeville, what'd you think?
mozart		Yes.
schikaneder		Can I see it?
mozart		No.
schikaneder		Why not?
mozart		Because there's nothing to see.
schikaneder		Look, I asked you if we could start rehearsal next week and you said yes.
mozart		Well, we can.
schikaneder		So let me see it. Where is it?
mozart		Here. It's all right here, in my noodle. The rest is just scribbling. Scribbling and bibbling. Bibbling and scribbling. Would you like a drink?
schikaneder		Look, you little clown, do you know how many people I've hired for you? Do you know how many people are waiting?
constanze		Leave him alone!
schikaneder		I'm paying these people. Do you realize that?
constanze		He's doing his best.
schikaneder		I'm paying people just to wait for you. It's ridiculous!
constanze		You know what's ridiculous? Your libretto, that's what's ridiculous. Only an idiot would ask Wolfi to work on that stuff!
schikaneder		Oh yes? And what's so intelligent about writing a Requiem?
constanze		Money! Money!
schikaneder		You're mad! She's mad, Wolfi.
constanze		Oh yes, and who are you? He's worked for Kings. For the Emperor.  Who are you?
schikaneder		Listen, Wolfi. Write it. Please. Just write it down. On paper. It's no good to anyone in your head. And fuck the Death Mass.
salieri		Now calm yourself. Calm. What's the matter with you?
lorl		I'm leaving. I'm not working there anymore. I'm scared!
salieri		Why? What has happened?
lorl		You don't know what it's like. Herr Mozart frightens me. He drinks all day, then takes all that medicine and it makes him worse.
salieri		What medicine?
lorl		I don't know. He has pains.
salieri		Where?
lorl		Here, in his stomach. They bend him right over.
salieri		Is he working?
lorl		I'm frightened, sir. Really! When he speaks, he doesn't make any sense. You know he said he saw - he said he saw his father. And his father's dead.
salieri		Is he working?
lorl		I suppose so. He sits there all he time, doing some silly opera.
salieri		 Opera? Opera!
lorl		Please don't ask me to go back again. I'm frightened! I'm very, very frightened.
salieri		 Are you sure it's an opera?
mozart		I don't have it yet. It's not finished. I'm sorry, but I need more time.
salieri		Are you neglecting my request?
mozart		No, no! I promise you, I'll give you a wonderful piece - the best I ever can!
mozart		This is my wife, Stanzi. I've been sick, but I'm all right now. Aren't I?
constanze		Oh yes, sir. He's all right. And he's working on it very hard.
mozart		Give me two more weeks. Please.
salieri		The sooner you finish, the better your reward. Work!
constanze		Wolfi, I think you really are going mad. You work like a slave for that idiot actor who won't give you a penny and here. This is not a ghost! This is a real man who puts down real money. Why on earth don't you finish it?
constanze		Give me one reason I can understand.
mozart		I can't write it!
constanze		Why not?
mozart		It's killing me.
constanze		No, this is really awful. You're drunk, aren't you? Be honest - tell me - you've been drinking. And I'm so stupid I stay here and listen to you!
constanze		It's not fair! I worry about you all the time. I try to help you all I can and you just drink and talk nonsense and - and frighten me! It's not fair!
mozart		Go back to bed.
constanze		Please! Let me sit here. Let me stay here with you. I promise I won't say all word. I'll just be here, so you know no one's going to hurt you. Please, please!
mozart		Stanzi? Stanzi-marini-bini?
frau weber		She's not coming back, you know. She's gone for good. I did it and I'm proud of it. 'Leave,' I said. 'Right away! Take he child and go, just go. Here's the money! Go to the Spa and get your health back - that's if you can.' I was shocked. Shocked to my foundation. Is that my girl? Can that be my Stanzi? The happy little moppet I brought up, that poor trembling thing? Oh, you monster! No one exists but you, do they? You and your music! Do you know how often she's sat in that very chair, weeping her eyes out of her head because of you? I warned her. 'Choose a man, not a baby,' I said. But would she listen? Who listens? 'He's just a silly boy,' she says. Silly, my arse. Selfish - that's all you are. Selfish! Selfish, selfish, selfish, selfish, selfish.
voice		Go back!
papageno		Merciful Gods! If only I knew by which door I came in.  Which was it? Was it this one? Come on, tell me!
voice		Go back!
papageno		Now, I can't go forward and I can't go back. Oh, this is awful!
first priest		 Man, thou hast deserved to wander forever in the darkest chasms of the earth. The gentle Gods have remitted thy punishment, but yet thou shalt never feel the Divine Content of the consecrated ones.
papageno		Oh well, I'm not alone in that. Just give me a decent glass of wine - that's divine content enough for me.
first priest		Man, hast thou no other desire on earth, but just to eat and drink?
papageno		 Well!
papageno		Well, actually I do have a rather weird feeling in my heart. Perhaps it's just indigestion. But you know, I really would like - I really do want - something even nicer than food and drink. Now what on earth could that be?
andante		A sweetheart or a pretty little wife is Papageno's wish. A willing, billing, lovey dovey Would be My most tasty little dish. Be my most tasty little dish! Be my most tasty little dish!
allegro		Then that would be eating and drinking I'd live like a Prince without thinking. The wisdom of old would be mine - A woman's much better than wine! Then that would be eating and drinking! The wisdom of old would be mine - A woman's much better than wine. She's much better than wine! She's much better than wine!
andante		 A sweetheart or a pretty little wife is Papageno's wish. A willing, billing, lovey dovey Would be My most tasty little dish.
allegro		I need to net one birdie only And I will stop feeling so lonely. But if she won't fly to my aid, Then into a ghost I must fade. I need to net one birdie only But if she won't fly to my aid, Then into a ghost I must fade.  To a ghost I must fade! To a ghost I must fade!
andante		 A sweetheart or a pretty little wife is Papageno's wish. A willing, billing, lovey dovey Would be My most tasty little dish.
allegro		At present the girls only peck me. Their cruelty surely will wreck me. But one little beak in my own, And I'll up to heaven be flown! At present the girls only peck me. But one little beak in my own, And I'll up to heaven be flown. Up to heaven be flown! Up to heaven be flown!
salieri		I'll take care of him.
salieri		I have a carriage. Excuse me.
papageno		 What? Who the devil are you?
papageno		Oh. Well, thank you! How wonderful. Some people get all the luck.
papageno		 I can't wait.
papageno		What do you mean - now?
papageno		Well, I don't know! I mean you're a delicious, delightful, delectable little bird, but don't you think you might be just a little tough?
mozart		What happened? Is it over?
salieri		I'm taking you home. You're not well.
mozart		No, no. I have to get back. I have -
salieri		 Thank you. Go.
mozart		 Papa! Papa!
salieri		Come now.
salieri		Where is your wife?
mozart		Not here! She's not well, either. She went to the Spa.
salieri		You mean she's not coming back?
mozart		You're so good to me. Truly. Thank you.
salieri		No, please.
mozart		I mean to come to my opera. You are the only colleague who did.
salieri		I would never miss anything that you had written. You must know that.
mozart		This is only a vaudeville.
salieri		Oh no. It is a sublime piece. The grandest operone. I tell you, you are the greatest composer known to me.
mozart		Do you mean that?
salieri		I do.
mozart		I have bad fancies. I don't sleep well anymore. Then I drink too much, and think stupid things.
salieri		Are you ill?
mozart		The doctor thinks I am. But -
salieri		What?
mozart		I'm too young to be so sick.
salieri		Shall I answer it?
mozart		No! No, it's him!
salieri		Who?
mozart		The man. He's here.
salieri		What man?
mozart		Tell him to go away. Tell him I'm still working on it. Don't let him in!
mozart		Wait! Ask him if he'd give me some money now. Tell him if he would, that would help me finish it.
salieri		Finish what?
mozart		He knows. He knows!
schikaneder		Herr Salieri.
salieri		Yes, I am looking after him.
schikaneder		Can we come in?
salieri		Well, he's sleeping now. Better not.
schikaneder		But he's all right?
salieri		Oh, yes. He's just exhausted. He became dizzy, that's all. We should let him rest.
schikaneder		Well, tell him we were here, won't you?
salieri		Of course.
schikaneder		And say everything went wonderfully. A triumph-de-luxe - say that! Tell him the audience shouted his name a hundred times.
salieri		Bene.
schikaneder		I'll call tomorrow.
salieri		Yes.  And congratulations to all of you. It was superb.
actresses		Thank you! Thank you, Excellency!
schikaneder		Oh, by the way, give him this. This is his share. That should cheer him up, eh?
salieri		Yes, indeed. Goodnight to you all now. It was perfection - truly!
actresses		 Goodnight, Your Excellency. Goodnight!
mozart		What happened?
salieri		He said to give you this. And if you finish the work by tomorrow night, he will pay you another hundred ducats.
mozart		Another? But that's too soon! Tomorrow night? It's impossible! Did he say a hundred?
salieri		Yes. Can I - could I help you, in any way?
mozart		Would you? Actually, you could.
salieri		My dear friend, it would be my greatest pleasure.
mozart		But you'd have to swear not to tell a soul. I'm not allowed.
salieri		Of course.
mozart		You know, it's all here in my head. It's just ready to be set down. But when I'm dizzy like this my eyes won't focus. I can't write.
salieri		Then, let us try together. I'd regard it as such an honour. Tell me, what is this work?
mozart		A Mass. A Mass for the Dead.
officer		What is it?
constanze		I want to go!
officer		Where?
constanze		I want to go back to Vienna.
officer		Now?
constanze		Yes!
officer		Why?
constanze		I feel wrong. I feel wrong being here.
officer		 What are you talking about?
mozart		Where did I stop?
salieri		 The end of the Recordare - Statuens in parte dextra.
mozart		So now the Confutatis. Confutatis Maledictis. When the wicked are confounded. Flammis acribus addictis. How would you translate that?
salieri		Consigned to flames of woe.
mozart		Do you believe in it?
salieri		What?
mozart		A fire which never dies. Burning one forever?
salieri		Oh, yes.
mozart		Strange!
salieri		Come. Let's begin.
salieri		Confutatis Maledictis.
mozart		We ended in F Major?
salieri		Yes.
mozart		So now - A minor. Suddenly.
mozart		The Fire.
salieri		What time?
mozart		Common time.
mozart		Start with the voices. Basses first. Second beat of the first measure - A.  G-sharp, of course.
salieri		Yes.
mozart		Third measure, second beat starting on E.  Do you have that?
salieri		I think so.
mozart		Sing it back.
mozart		Good. Now the tenors. Fourth beat of the first measure - C.  All right?
salieri		Yes.
mozart		Fourth measure, second beat - F.  Flam-mis a-cri-bus ad-dic-tis, flam- mis a-cri-bus ad-dic-tis.
mozart		Now the orchestra. Second bassoon and bass trombone with the basses. Identical notes and rhythm.  The first bassoon and tenor trombone -
salieri		 Please! Just one moment.
mozart		It couldn't be simpler.
salieri		 First bassoon and tenor trombone - what?
mozart		With the tenors.
salieri		Also identical?
mozart		Exactly. The instruments to go with the voices. Trumpets and timpani, tonic and dominant.
salieri		And that's all?
mozart		Oh no. Now for the Fire.  Strings in unison - ostinato on all - like this.
mozart		 Second measure on B.
mozart		 Do you have me?
salieri		I think so.
mozart		Show me.
mozart		 Good, good - yes! Put it down. And the next measures exactly the same, rising and rising - C to D to E, up to the dominant chord. Do you see?
salieri		That's wonderful!
mozart		Yes, yes - go on. The Voca Me. Suddenly sotto voce. Write that down: sotto voce, pianissimo. Voca me cum benedictis. Call me among the blessed.
mozart		C Major. Sopranos and altos in thirds. Altos on C. Sopranos above.  Vo-ca, vo-ca me, vo-ca me cum be-ne- dic-tis.
salieri		Sopranos up to F on the second 'Voca'?
mozart		Yes, and on 'dictis'.
salieri		Yes!
mozart		And underneath, just violins - arpeggio.
mozart		 The descending scale in eighth notes, and then back suddenly to the fire again.
mozart		 And that's it. Do you have it?
salieri		You go fast!
mozart		 Do you have it?
salieri		Yes.
mozart		Then let me hear it. All of it. The whole thing from the beginning - now!
mozart		Do you want to rest a bit?
salieri		Oh no. I'm not tired at all.
mozart		We'll stop for just a moment. Then we'll do the Lacrimosa.
salieri		I can keep going, I assure you. Shall we try?
mozart		Would you stay with me while I sleep a little?
salieri		I'm not leaving you.
mozart		I am so ashamed.
salieri		What for?
mozart		I was foolish. I thought you did not care for my work - or me. Forgive me. Forgive me!
constanze		What are you doing here?
salieri		Your husband is ill, ma'am. He took sick. I brought him home.
constanze		Why you?
salieri		I was at hand.
constanze		Well, thank you very much. You can go now.
salieri		He needs me, ma'am.
constanze		No, he doesn't. And I don't want you here. Just go, please.
salieri		He asked me to stay.
constanze		And I'm asking you -
constanze		Wolfi, I'm back. I'm still very angry with you, but I missed you so much.
constanze		I'll never leave you again. If you'll just try a little harder to be nice to me. And I'll try to do better, too. We must. We must! This was just silly and stupid.
constanze		What is this?
constanze		Oh no, not this. Not this, Wolfi! You're not to work on this ever again! I've decided.
constanze		 This is not his handwriting.
salieri		No. I was assisting him. He asked me.
constanze		He's not going to work on this anymore. It is making him ill. Please.
constanze		 Please.
constanze		Thank you.
salieri		But - but - but -
constanze		Good night.
constanze		I regret we have no servants to show you out, Herr Salieri. Respect my wish and go.
salieri		Madame, I will respect his. He asked me to stay here.
constanze		Wolfi?  Wolfi?
vogler		Why? Why? Why? Why add to your misery by confessing to murder? You didn't kill him.
old salieri		I did.
vogler		No, you didn't!
old salieri		I poisoned his life.
vogler		But not his body.
old salieri		What difference does that make?
vogler		My son, why should you want all Vienna to believe you a murderer? Is that your penance? Is it?
old salieri		No, Father. From now on no one will be able to speak of Mozart without thinking of me. Whenever they say Mozart with love, they'll have to say Salieri with loathing. And that's my immortality - at last! Our names will  be tied together for eternity - his in fame and mine in infamy. At least it's better than the total oblivion he'd planned for me, your merciful God!
vogler		Oh my son, my poor son!
old salieri		Don't pity me. Pity yourself. You serve a wicked God. He killed Mozart, not I. Took him, snatched him away, without pity. He destroyed His beloved rather than let a mediocrity like me get the smallest share in his glory. He doesn't care. Understand that. God cares nothing for the man He denies and nothing either for the man He uses. He broke Mozart in half when He'd finished with him, and threw him away. Like an old, worn out flute.
local priest		The Lord giveth. The Lord taketh away. Blessed be the name of the Lord.
old salieri		Why did He do it? Why didn't He kill me? I had no value. What was the use, keeping me alive for thirty-two years of torture? Thirty-two years of honours and awards.
old salieri		Being bowed to and saluted, called 'distinguished - distinguished Salieri' - by men incapable of distinguishing! Thirty-two years of meaningless fame to end up alone in my room, watching myself become extinct. My music growing fainter, all the time fainter, until no one plays it at all. And his growing louder, filling the world with wonder. And everyone who loves my sacred art crying, Mozart! Bless you, Mozart.
attendant		Good morning, Professor! Time for the water closet. And then we've got your favourite breakfast for you - sugar-rolls.  He loves those. Fresh sugar-rolls.
old salieri		Goodbye, Father. I'll speak for you. I speak for all mediocrities in the world. I am their champion. I am their patron saint. On their behalf I deny Him, your God of no mercy. Your God who tortures men with longings they can never fulfill. He may forgive me: I shall never forgive Him.
old salieri		Mediocrities everywhere, now and to come: I absolve you all! Amen! Amen! Amen!
****Dialogues from script :amelia.txt****

amelia		Adventurous? You've got the wrong girl, Mister. You should know that by now. Her eyes study him.    Assessing something as he pours himself four fingers.
fred		Actually. I knew that the moment I met ol' George. He sips his drink.    She says nothing.
amelia		That why I get so many chances to not do it?
fred		Well.   Natural curiosity. His charming smile. She's thinking more about the tequila. She reaches to take his bottle and glass. Moves them to her side of the table.
fred		I mean, why would a guy who needs to run the show. Pick the one girl he knew could kick his tail?
amelia		He thought I hated him.      He never knew I was fascinated.
george		 The first time I met her she sat in that chair. The secretary doesn't know whether to write that down.   And still with his back to her...
george		Miss Earhart?
amelia		Mr. Putnam? GEORGE  I asked you to sit.
amelia		Was that the thing you did with your hand? Sadly, I don't speak dog. His smile now only a trace.       But more genuine.
george		A            Ah.   Well, stand if you like. melia sits.
amelia		I do.
george		In the 12 months since Lindbergh, 55 people in 18 planes have tried. Three planes made it. Fourteen people have died.
amelia		I'll make it.
george		Three women died trying. Two others escaped with their lives. If you do make it, you'd be the first. Which...is the real attraction for both of us, I suspect. She nods.    No smile.
amelia		Always nice to know what the real attraction is. His smile.    Beginning to enjoy this conversation.
george		The plane was bought from Adm. Byrd by Amy Guest, a socialite who wanted the record for herself. Her family wouldn't tolerate the danger. She has asked for a replacement... He gestures.   Perhaps you.
amelia		Why would that matter?
george		Because she wants the world to pay attention. And pretty girls command more attention.
amelia		Was that your advice?
george		Sure. My role is selling this event to the public. There will be a contract for the girl's story with the New York Times. Also a book to be published over her name. Understood...?       G
amelia		Except for the part that goes to you.
george		Which will be as great as I can manage, I assure you.
amelia		You said she wants a flyer.
george		Don't get your hopes up. The celebrated Wilmer Stultz will be the pilot. There'll be a male co- pilot and navigator. The woman will be purely a passenger.
amelia		Why would anyone want a book from a passenger?
george		Because the hook is that we're making the woman the commander. The pilot will sign a contract saying he is under her direction and control. It's her ship, her flight.
amelia		Good for my chances, you said. What are my chan...
george		The job's yours. She blinks.   Stunned speechless.
amelia		You're a busy man, Mr. Putnam.     I can find my way. The look holds.   He shrugs.   You probably can.
george		I honestly feel an apology is in order.
amelia		Fine.   What have I done? She watches his smile.
george		I mean an apology.   For what's coming. His voice softens.
amelia		We.
george		That's right. If you're not in there selling with me, it won't work. The smile turns friendly.
amelia		Spoken like a gentleman. She steps up onto the train. Extends her hand like a man. He shakes it firmly. The train begins to move. She watches his cheery wave as she rolls away.
amelia		Got it.   I think.
melia		Girls, this is Mr. Samuel Chapman. Sam, say hullo to the Octopus Club. The Octopus Club waves to Sam.   The adults wave, too.
amelia		They are, actually. She pats the grass beside her.   Sam has no choice but to sit.
sam		And it's a secret.
amelia		Has to be. Competition, you know. Millionaire heiresses, hot shot girl pilots. If George knew I told you, he'd have me publicly flogged.
sam		And no one else knows.
amelia		Marion. She's giving me a leave of absence.
sam		I would think so. Your name will be in all the papers, and not just Boston. Denison House stands to come in for funding, national attention.
amelia		Specially if I don't make it.
sam		Don't joke about that. She wasn't joking at all.
amelia		Well, I'll have impressive credentials as a long-distance passenger. That's not exactly a career in aviation. She looks up at his eyes.
sam		And where does that leave us?
amelia		You do love to look on the dark side. Whatever did you see in a sunny character like me? She gives him a sweet playful smile.   It doesn't reassure him.
sam		It's not as if I'd been putting pressure on you.
amelia		What love means to you. What it requires. Is the pressure. He stops walking.
sam		I love you. Is that such a terrible problem? She gazes at him.   Can he even hear this?
amelia		The problem is what it's always been. The problem is me.
mabel		Okay, boys. I'll take any questions you wanna throw my way. Except about what's behind this sweater. The boys ROAR.   Mabel keeps her smile tight.
george		Boys, I'd like to introduce your commander, Miss Amelia Earhart.
amelia		We felt `commander' was less grandiose than, say, `empress.' Bill doesn't smile.   The other man does...
george		Say hello to Slim Gordon your navigator. She is shaking hands in that strong, direct way.
george		Nope, those are new, personally suggested by the old man himself. Bill nods on that.   Sure were.
amelia		Hmmn.   What does that do to our fuel?
bill		Costs us at least 400 gallons. Don't bother bringing clothes for Paris, we'll be lucky to hit the nearest beach in Ireland. Real lucky.
george		The Admiral estimates the pontoons only cut our range by 200 miles. But Amelia looks to Bill.   That's not really possible is it?
bill		The Admiral is the Admiral. He gets to estimate any damn thing he wants. All we have to do is figure out how to fly without petrol. She turns to George with challenging eyes.
amelia		I wonder if it can keep them up there. Not that I've ever had enough to try.
amelia		Sorry.    I'll try keeping my mouth shut.
george		What I ought to try. Is listening to you once in awhile.
amelia		Careful.    I could get to like it. No reaction from him. He hops into the boat. Turns, holds out his hand. She hesitates. Clearly doesn't need his help to jump into a boat. Their eyes lock. We are watching her decide. And then... She reaches to clasp his hand.   Hops down beside him.
george		 Simpkin.
amelia		It's in a book. Oh, that's right. You read the ones you publish. Her smile is friendly, not flirtatious. She goes to sit in the bow. He doesn't follow. But he is watching.
amelia		What are you boys doing over there?
george		Trying to make you look like a girl. George studies the photo, then goes to Amelia and begins moving her body into the new pose. Tilting her head to Lindbergh's angle.
george		he more we can make you look like a girl, the better.
amelia		Oh god, is it worth the effort? He cocks his head, studies her.    Nah, guess not.
george		Wondering who should play you in the film of all this. I'm thinking Chaplin.
amelia		Valentino's not available? He shakes his head sadly. Adjusts her collar once more. This time, his hands linger.
george		Amelia Earhart, this is Dorothy Binney Putnam. The women trade smiles.   They shake hands, holding eye contact.
dorothy		Great to meet you. George talks so much about you.  In fact, lately, you're all he does talk about.
photographer		Hold those smiles for one more, please.
amelia		Popping off letters. For my dad, my mom, my sis. You know. In case.
george		I'm honored. That you'd leave these with me.
amelia		Who else? If I do pop off, it's your fault. Said in her sunny way. But she's not kidding.    It takes a beat before he can offer...
george		I'll call them once you're safely on your way.
amelia		Sam will handle that.   They trust him. That registers.
george		I've figured out the Simpkin thing, you know.
amelia		Have you.
george		Sure. There are so few books I haven't published, it was easy to find. Well...?
amelia		But why is he you? Oh.
george		He's brilliant, charismatic...
amelia		So you haven't actually read it. Do you actually read?
george		...neurotic, compulsive, manipulative. Am I getting warmer? She sighs.
amelia		Hi there, boys. How are the ham and eggs? The FLASHES EXPLODE as one.   They keep POPPING as Amelia makes her way to them.
bill		Don't blame us, lady. I think somebody's starting to sell books. The reporters are handing her their morning editions. The New York Times front page headline: BOSTON GIRL STARTS FOR
eporter		Say, Amelia. What have you got for Mabel Boll to chew on?
amelia		Now why would a famous gal like Mabel give a thought to someone like me? I don't have a single sweater made out of gold. The boys ROAR, Slim louder than anyone. Even Bill cracks a smile. They're shouting, teasing, YOU CAN'T KID US!
bill		The ham's a little tough, Commander. But the bacon's swell.
mabel		Well, how would any woman feel about some tart who steals her man? Reporters furiously writing, more flashes EXPLODE.
eporter		Mabel, are you implying Miss Earhart used her feminine charms on your pilot?
mabel		I don't know, Charlie, I never seen her. Has she got any? LAUGHTER, they're all calling out.   She shows them a smoky smile, but stays on message.
reporter		What makes you so cocky that she won't leave first?
mabel		Rusty, we can carry enough fuel to go to China. That thing they're flying can't load enough gas to make Yonkers. Tell that to Putnam's girlie. And while you're at it... She snuggles the gleaming fox fur around her.  MABEL  Tell her I do wear silver.   So I'm two up on her.
bill		Christ, what time is...
amelia		Time to fly. Get up, get dressed, we're going now. She is calm and angry at once.    A powerful combination.   Slim pulls his pants off a chair.
bill		Where's the weather report? She goes to his bed. Hands him a slip of paper.     He blinks, still waking up. Reads.
amelia		Great. Maybe Mabel will think so, too. Because if she doesn't, she's going to Paris and you're going home. Today.
ill		It's not good enough.
amelia		It's fine, there's a tail wind all the way, we'll off-load to 700 gallons, which gets us off the water and the wind gets us to Ireland.
bill		We've had better than this and we haven't gone.
amelia		But this   is the day Mabel's ready, so we're   going now. The weather is going   to get better and we'll be there   to enjoy it.
bill		You're serious.
amelia		Just as serious as you're hung over.  You go now, get the late weather, we'll meet you at the plane. Go. Now! Slim pulls on his shoes, grabs his jacket, his bag. Looks to Bill, but the pilot is glaring at his commander.
amelia		Good.     Slim, start the engines. She still hasn't given the paper to Bill. Slim steps onto a pontoon. Starts CRANKING up the propellers. As the engine KICKS to life...
bill		Have a nice flight.
amelia		Thanks. She motions to Slim, get on board. The navigator grins, starts to climb up, looking back at Bill...
slim		Hey, I'm scared shitless of this dame. She climbs up after him.   One look back...
amelia		Read tomorrow's papers, Bill. We'll both be in them. And disappears. Alone on the dock, Bill hears the engines REV. Jesus, God, she's going to do it. He takes a step toward the plane, but her head appears in the hatch...
amelia		Out of gas. May have to swim for
bill		Mr. Putnam phoned. He says there's fella coming from London. Hilton Railey.
amelia		Oh, yeh. Very important man.   More important than any of us. Really?    Yep.
bill		He says ya mustn't come ashore til he gets here. No matter what. Great.    She doesn't like it, but there it is.   She waves, so long.
amelia		Public relations. Goes back to work.    DISSOLVE TO... LATER. Amelia sits with her papers in her lap, dangling her feet from the hatch. Alone. Hear the BUZZ of... ...a PLANE dropping slowly from the sky, gliding onto the water on its pontoons. She stares at it. Gathers up her things. LATER. Amelia sitting in a tiny dinghy, behind her the Friendship in distance. She is being rowed to shore. Our VIEW is over the back of the man rowing. Amelia is staring past him, vaguely apprehensive. REVERSE ANGLE. She's looking at TWO THOUSAND WELSHMEN swarming the docks. You can't even see the sand. The crowd is silent and staring. No cheers. As if they were staring at an alien or an animal in the zoo. Bill and Slim help pull the dinghy to the rocky shore. But when Amelia jumps out, the crowd...
sheriff		Sorry Ma'am. Shoulda brought more men.
amelia		No, really, this is very sweet, it's an honor. I'm actually enjoying it.
sheriff		That's a good thing. She looks at him as they are jostled along.
amelia		Hullo, Hilton. Railey stands back as FLASHBULBS catch the moment.   He's brought photographers with him. And more.
ailey		Amelia, say hullo to Allen Raymond of the New York Times. A hearty handshake.   She holds out her sheets of paper.
amelia		I believe you've come for these. Both men regard the pages as if they were gold bullion.     Come for these indeed.
amelia		I was a passenger on this journey. Just a passenger. Everything that was done to bring us across was done by Wilmer Stultz and Slim Gordon. All the praise...
reporter		 But you can fly, can't you? Amelia stares at the man.    Conflicting agendas.
amelia		This flight was solely to the credit of Bill and Slim. Women should know, however, that I have had 500 hours solo flying and once held the women's altitude record.
reporter		So you could have done it yourself!
amelia		This particular flight, under these conditions, I wonder if anyone but Bill Stultz could have pulled it off. But certainly, one day a woman will do this. As easily, as skillfully, as professionally as any man. Such calm self-possession.    Such confidence in that.
amelia		Guess you can burn those letters. Dorothy wonders.       Letters?
george		I saved them for your book. One simple shake of Amelia's head.       A soft...
amelia		The book's yours.     The letters are mine. He smiles.       Bows in submission.
george		ou're the boss.
dorothy		Hey, that's my job.  Do you think there's enough of him to boss for the two of us? Amelia still looking at George.    Laughs.
amelia		Barely enough for one. A battery of reporters and flashbulbs wait by our motorcade.
reporter		Miss Earhart, can you tell us some- thing about your future plans?
amelia		Well, being a social worker by trade and passion, I'll be going back to work at Denison House when all this fun is over. She sends the guy a smile, and a dozen FLASHES catch it.
reporter		Mr. Putnam, sir. How did a social worker like Miss Earhart become comfortable as a celebrity so quickly? George smiles.   His eyes still following Amelia.
george		The truth is, she was a celebrity on smaller stages all her life.
george		Lucky Strike endorsement.      I wrote the copy myself.
amelia		What does it say?   `I don't smoke but you should?'
george		It says Lucky Strikes were the only cigarettes aboard the Friendship. That's true.
amelia		True and misleading.      Why would I sign that?
george		So Bill and Slim get paid.
amelia		It's so good to meet you. I've been following your career with a great deal of admiration.
elinor		Um.   Thanks, and.   You, too.
amelia		Feel like a drink?
george		Amelia!   What would her mother say?
amelia		Relax, George. I meant a Coke. As she leads Elinor into the sitting room of their suite, the girl's eye falls on the door to the bedroom. It is slightly ajar, revealing an unmade double bed. Unseen by the others, the kid reacts. Oh, my.
elinor		They're saying you get $500 a week on the lecture circuit.
amelia		All depends. On whether you want the sell or the real.
elinor		Oh, I don't underestimate the value of selling. It's why I'm here.
george		A 16-year-old girl sets an altitude record, then makes headlines illegally flying under the four bridges of the East River. You don't seem to need much help selling yourself.
elinor		Well, actually Mr. Putnam, I was hoping you could do to me what you've done to her. Inadvertently, her eyes flick to the bedroom door. Catching this, our couple shares a dry smile. The kid sees that. Uh- oh.
george		Just so we're clear, young lady. What is your primary ambition? ELINOR  To take Amelia's place as the number one female pilot. The honesty, the suddenness, leave George atypically dumbstruck.
amelia		Well, good for you! I would have expected nothing less. You want a tip?
elinor		I do.
amelia		Keep doing what you're doing. The girl nods, seriously.    Okay.
george		Lovely party, huh?
dorothy		Depends on your point of view. I've been listening to some idiot brag about his girlfriend. Still walking.   She never looks at him.
george		Well, in that case, for your information, it is a lovely party indeed. Anything on your mind?
dorothy		It's not so much that my husband is having an affair with his meal ticket. It's just a pity we can't have one honest conversation about it.
george		What's wrong with this one? A promising start, I'd say, in the honesty department. She finishes her drink. Throws the glass away. From our ANGLE we can now see D Amelia in the window, watching them.
orothy		If this is what you call an honest talk, I'd say you need some practice.
george		Great. Let's try one about you and Fred Upton. She stops walking.   Turns in shock, to see his easy smile.
george		Dorothy and I are through. She sits beside him.     Very close.
amelia		For a long, long time.
george		It's different now. She looks at him.   Squints.    How?
amelia		I can't do that.
george		If you give it a chance, you'll learn to love me. He seems so sunny and strong.     What can he be feeling?
amelia		I already love you.    That's why I can't marry you. GEORGE  Well, that explains it. For a minute there, I thought you were stuck for an excuse.
amelia		I know me.     And you don't.   Not really.
george		What if I promise not to learn?
amelia		The day will come. When I will run away. And when it does... He stops her with a kiss.
george		If you love me. I'll take my chances. He stares in her troubled eyes.   There is no answer.
elinor		Wish I was important enough for you to manage.
george		Well, I've just got one client. And most days she's more than I can manage. Even Elinor's smile seems older, more capable of subtlety.
elinor		Get in line behind the boys she smacked around on the Derby. He grins back.   You bet.
george		And both of those things.      Are the reasons I called you.
elinor		I'm not sure she has much of a chance, Mr. Putnam.
george		Well, the one shot would be putting her in a far more powerful plane than anything she's flown. We're thinking the Lockheed Vega. The girl's shock.    He really means this.
elinor		Sir, I've test piloted the Vega. It's way more than she could ever handle. It wouldn't be safe, let alone successful. He smiles.
george		That's why I'm thinking of you flying with her. You could handle the cross-country flying, the more difficult bits, and I'd pay you $75 a week. Elinor WHISTLES low.
elinor		Well, I think that's the most generous opportunity I've ever been offered. He stares at her.
george		There's just one thing. Obviously, it has to appear that Amelia did all the flying. So when pictures are taken, you'll stand off to one side. Her eyes narrow.    He's completely serious.
elinor		In that case, I'll get my own plane and win the race myself.
george		You haven't changed.
elinor		That's a threat.
george		I'm an intensely loyal person, Elinor. And this is what my loyalty requires. She's glaring.   Reeling.   Trapped.
elinor		She's the one who said I shouldn't let anybody turn me around.
george		She probably meant me. So honest, the words confuse her.
elinor		Obviously, she doesn't see me as a threat.
george		Oh, sure she does. A straight smile...
george		he told you that I shut her out of the Derby. And that's true.
amelia		And when were you going to tell me? GEORGE  Never. I knew you'd go crazy. And I felt it needed to be done. She can scarcely believe this.
amelia		What? You think I wanted it done, but just let you do the dirty work?
george		I didn't say that.
amelia		Because I'm no angel. Business is competition and competition is rough, and I thank my stars that you're there making this life happen for me, but...
george		ou're making your life hap...
amelia		But this is different. It is.
george		rom here on, I'll just stab men in he back. A
melia		You didn't do this for business, anyway.   G
eorge		I did it for fun?
amelia		You did it because you love me. That stops him.
george		did.   I do.
amelia		Well, then. His eyes moving over her face.
george		What about what you said? The day will come when you run away. It will.
amelia		You'll be destroyed. And part of me will, too. And I think we both know it. And yet.
george		y Amelia. Brutal in her frank- ness. Beautiful in her honesty. He steps to her.    Looks in her eyes.   They kiss.
melia		I might fly to Paris. Silence.
george		Which is actually across the Atlantic.
amelia		Hence, the article. Ah.   He nods.
george		Not at all. When would you like to go?
amelia		I'm surprised you're all right with this... WIDEN ANGLE.     George kneeling beside her.   Happily planting his own.
george		Really.
amelia		Mmm-hmmn. I was braced for the lecture. Five years since Lindbergh, no one's made it solo, so many of them died. He looks at her work. Reaches over. Starts packing the earth HARDER around her plant. She just watches, then...
george		ell, they were only men.   This is different. She reaches to his plant and starts LOOSENING the soil...
amelia		I was waiting to hear that I'm only doing this because I was just a passenger last time, and I'd rather die than go on living as a fraud.. No one cracks a smile. It's like Laurel and Hardy in a food fight where each lets the other take his best shot. George
george		Of course not. But if I did... She SMACKS his hand. He just keeps working. She finally grins, smacks him HARDER. He doesn't seem to notice.
george		Elephant hair, I think you wear it on your toe. It's good luck. He puts it in her hand.
amelia		I think luck has rules. And I try to respect them. My favorite is... She glances up.
george		Do you have money?
amelia		No. He pulls out a twenty dollar bill.      Hands it to her.
eorge		Sure.
amelia		Thank god, I thought you were going to tear it in half.
george		I spent our money on ocean liner passage to go bring you back. It's non-refundable. So try to do your part. She nods.   She'll try.   He doesn't want to leave her yet.
amelia		I put it in a letter. Which you'll get if I don't make it. So...mixed emotions, huh? He shakes his head. GEORGE  Either way, something to look forward to. She puts her hands on his face.    She doesn't want to leave him either.
amelia		Excuse me, sir. Where am I? A blink.   The truth...
man		In Gallagher's pasture.
amelia		When I left, I was aiming for Paris. Oh. MAN  It's over there.
george		ell, I'm glad someone besides me finally noticed. His smile is light.    Her eyes watching him.   Then... AMELIA  `Using a man-made perfect machine, tuned by men mechanics, trained by men flyers, on a course laid out by a man. By a lucky break she just managed to make the hop.' She stares at the paper.    His voice comes gently...
george		hy would you even read that garbage?
amelia		Well, it reminds me how much I owe to the men of this world. Keeps me humble.
george		ood. And remembering how little you owe me keeps me humble. And softly...
george		You've made them feel like this.
amelia		That's not enough.
george		Most of them are women. And for them, it's very much enough. She shakes her head.
amelia		The World Telegram said, `a magnificent display of useless courage.'
george		The question is. Can any magnif- icent display of courage be use- less?     A
melia		The point is. Men do it every day. And no one throws a parade. Ah.   Well...
george		One day closer, then. To the day when they won't think to throw one for you. She doesn't turn.   She doesn't smile.
amelia		Reasoning with me. A magnificent display of useless courage. He nods to himself.
george		And.   It's fun. From the stage...
george		If a bomb goes off tonight, the whole government of the United States is out there...
george		Some dog catcher will have to become President. She smiles.    Just for him.
amelia		Ladies.
amelia		Thursday, I'll be in Boston. Meeting Gene Vidal and Paul Collins. Said lightly. Not even looking at him.     While through the glass, it's become quite a tussle.
george		Don't tell me Gene wants to resurrect Transcontinental?
amelia		No, he's starting a shuttle service. Washington, New York, Boston... One woman goes flying from view, as a younger one gets her place.
george		Gene's a dashing guy. He could talk anyone into anything. Their look holds.
gene		Transcontinental was too ambitious. Too many hops, too tough on the ladies. But the shuttle... A lean athlete's body, easy grace in every movement. Strikingly handsome features that convey not only intellect, but kindness and decency.
amelia		What on earth would you need me for? She's making a real mess of the lobster.    Gene notices.   PAUL COLLINS doesn't...
paul		Hasn't George taught you anything? Lady Lindy, the queen of the air, the best known woman in the entire U.S. of A? Gene reaches over, as if it were his own plate, and begins cracking her lobster for her. She looks in his eyes and tries to concentrate.
dissolve to...		LATER. Paul has gone. Gene and Amelia are at the bar, huddled over his beer and her Coke.
gene		I'm rattling on here, and you've got a morning train. But she's just staring in his eyes.   This could be her last chance to ask...
amelia		How's Nina doing?
gene		Oh, fine. Really?   He smiles, gently.
amelia		If you two get bored, I could tag along sometimes.
gene		You suggesting you're less boring than I am?
amelia		Well, yeh. He smiles first.    Hers is slower, but here it comes.
gene		Gore would love that. He has a little crush, I'm afraid.
amelia		At seven?
gene		He's eight. Well, then. He breaks the look.     Fishes out some cash for the bar tab.        G
amelia		Are you kidding, it's a godsend. No matter how hard George and I work, how many lectures we cram in, there's never enough money for the next adventure. He looks at her. Lets the silence sit there.     His eyes seem to convey a depth of understanding.
gene		The next adventure.    What is it? She shrugs.    No idea.
amelia		Wish you'd do something about that.
gene		I'm serious, Amelia. Her soft smile.
amelia		I know.   Always.
gene		The only way you can stay where you are. And be who you are... Serious indeed.
gene		The price of fame, literally. Do you and George talk about this? Silence.
amelia		We don't have to.
gene		With all respect.    Yes, you do.
amelia		For understanding. There is no smile. Without a word, she goes into her room. CLOSES the door behind her. e stands alone. Do I knock on that door?     Then, smiles to himself, and simply... Walks away.
melia		So he hasn't actually forbidden you.
eleanor		Franklin doesn't forbid. He just feels it's a waste of my valuable ime to learn. Since I can't afford to buy a plane.
amelia		The wrong Roosevelt got elected.
eleanor		And it will take at least four years to correct the mistake. Keeps eating.
amelia		I think the structure may be less important than the man chosen to run it. Said casually, looking at her plate.
eleanor		My hearing is failing. I missed the words `or woman,' which you undoubtedly added after, or per- haps before, the word `man.'
amelia		his could be one of those rare instances. When the most accomplished candidate. Turns out to be male. Glances up for the reaction.
eleanor		How exciting. I love finding the exception that proves the rule. Is t a name I know? Amelia's straight gaze.   Her small smile.
amelia		How do you feel about flying at night? Eleanor's eyes register the change of topic.     Rolling with it...
eleanor		I've never done it.   Franklin finds t dangerous.
amelia		Outstanding.
amelia		It's dual controls.   No one will ever know. Hesitation.
eleanor		Dear God. The Condor purrs along through the night air. The moon bobs slightly off to one side. Eleanor's eyes are swimming with the thrill of this.
amelia		I feel like a Coke.   Can I get you something? And stands up. Only the trace of her smile as the pilot's eyes WIDEN in absolute shock.
roosevelt		Today, we proudly announce an appointment critical to America's commerce, and to its role as technology's leader in the Twentieth Century. PAN to Gene at his side.   Sober.   Distinguished.   Proud.
amelia		Have I told you what a perfect job ou did on the peonies? They're miraculous.
amelia		Sorry.
george		It's all right. You've been distracted lately. No spin on that.   If G anything, the tone is kind.
amelia		When are you leaving?
george		Thing is.     I'd like you to come. She stiffens only slightly.     Can he sense it?
amelia		I don't really see how I can.
george		I've talked to the promoters, they'll switch some lecture dates for us. Now he's looking at her profile.     Saddened, if not surprised, by what he sees.
amelia		Well, it's not just that. There's y work on the shuttle, we're at a critical stage, and...I've just started as Gene's consultant at the Aeronautics Branch... She knows he's watching.    Shakes her head.    Keeps on working.
george		Normally, I'd be worried about leaving you here alone. But I suppose that won't be a problem, will it? She stops now. Looks up at him.      If he wants a direct conversation, he can have it.
amelia		What are you trying to say?
george		I think I've just said it. A long held look.       Neither backing away.   Sadness on both sides. GEORGE  Is there anything you want to say? She sighs.       Her fingers reach out, rub his hand with affection.
amelia		I can't think of anything helpful. He nods.   Well, then.      Rises slowly... Walks back toward the house, his garden tools forgotten.          She stares after him.
eorge		I found something you'd written. Draws a breath.     Reads...
amelia		I suppose I thought.      It was too revealing. WIDEN ANGLE. Gene enters the room with a drink in his hand and sits down next to her, concerned by her obvious distress. AMELIA  I'm so glad you have it now.
gene		If you don't drink, why do you come o bars?
amelia		Must be the ambience.   And the nuts.
gene		What worries me is, in some of these bars the nuts are the ambience. Specially when they make a pass at you.
amelia		Any guy would have to be nuts to do that. I'm considerable trouble, if you haven't noticed.
gene		You keep advertising that, but I'm still waiting to see it. She looks down at her fingers as they shell.    Barely audible...
amelia		You'll see it.
gene		Well, here's your chance. I'm taking Gore to the conference in Bermuda. He wants you to come.
amelia		Gore, huh?
gene		Sure.   I'm completely indifferent.
amelia		I wish. Do you?
gene		That's a wonderful idea. Especially now. Something in the way he said that.
amelia		What's special about now?
gene		A good time for some positive press about you as a role model. Her eyes harden.   Whatever do you mean?
amelia		Not unless someone makes me.
gene		Well, someone should. Because they're all saying you took recklessly dangerous solo flights for no earthly purpose except publicity. Meaning, money. Dead.   Silence.     G
amelia		How thoughtless of me to be doing ll this in a society where no one else is interested in making money. Present company included. He's not afraid of her.
gene		Look, George had you taking money rom the sugar cartel for the Hawaii flight, the Mexican Government for theirs, he's selling commemorative stamps which you carried on the flights...
amelia		If this is about George, just say o. Because we made those calls, nd we includes me.
gene		I'm sorry I said it that way. This s actually about you, because I'm picking a fight, apparently a useless one, for the benefit of someone I care about.
amelia		And what's your point? Women are eld to some higher standard? Bankers and industrialists are ad- mired for succeeding, but women are just considered selfish and grasping? ENE  Of course they are.
amelia		Well, let's change that, shall we? r would you just prefer to adopt t, since groveling would be easier. Staring at each other.
gene		If you want to make money, my guess s that people viewing you as Lady Lindy, America's Sweetheart of the Skies, the wife/mother/daughter they all wished they had. Would be helpful.
amelia		Thanks for the tip.
gene		Thanks for not being defensive. Full beat.
amelia		Well, I'm an open-minded girl. And o prove it, I'm hereby resigning as your consultant at the S            Aeronautics Branch. he throws some money on the table for the drinks.  AMELIA  Next time you read the papers.      Try reading between the lines. Walks out.       Gene makes no move to follow.   He's said his piece.
amelia		I came to Washington today with the National Women's Party, to ask the President for his aid in passing the Lucretia Mott Amendment for equal rights. She waits for the press to quiet.
amelia		...including them wanting us to say darn instead of damn. Laughter.   The girl flushes a little, her point is a crucial one...
amelia		Don't. She meant that.      And no one is laughing now.
amelia		Trust me. Only a husband talks like that. In their laughter, she goes to the phone.      EVERYBODY hangs on every word of... AMELIA  Yes?  Yes. Yes... (hand over phone, to the
amelia		Are you going to tell me your surprise, or do I have to get physical?
george		Boy, that is the last thing I'd want. Well, then?
amelia		Except it would have to be an Electra, and they cost...
george		...$36,000. After a generous discount from Lockheed.
amelia		May as well be a billion.
george		...not to mention at least another 36 to get it modified and ready. She glances at him.      He looks awfully smug.
amelia		And your surprise is, you robbed a bank.
george		Actually.    A university. They stop.    What on earth...?
amelia		Think I could help? He looks in her eyes.
george		Nah. She grins.
amelia		Cat food.    A whole case.
amelia		As President Elliot has said, it would be a shining adventure, beckoning with new experiences. Making me more useful to the program here at Purdue. She looks into the eyes of each in turn...
gore		So you'd be the first one, right? ou always like that. First one?
amelia		Well, there's Magellan, 400 years go. Actually, he didn't make it. And he died. And he used a boat.
gore		So it's almost the same, except it's completely different.
amelia		Pretty much. He glowers at her.    She glowers back.
gene		There are men who say they flew around the world, but they didn't ly around all of it.
gore		Because at higher latitudes, it's short trip. At the North Pole, ou just spin in a circle and you've gone around the world.
amelia		So why are you asking? Just to show how smart you are?
gore		Pretty much.
amelia		No one's tried it.    You think I should? No answer.
gore		Okay.
amelia		Okay. Is she serious?       She seems to be.
gene		Ask her about the Pacific. The maximum range of the Electra is 4000 miles. And the closest land est of Honolulu is farther than that. Gore looks to her.       Well?
amelia		I'll have to refuel.
gore		Where?
amelia		In the air. One plane to another. The boy is staring at her now.       Staring.
gore		You're really going to do all this, aren't you?
amelia		Well, don't you think I can? A beat.
gore		I guess we'll find out.
amelia		Pretty much. HOLD on Gene.   He smiles at his kid...
gene		Go out to the car and get Sara. Ask if she'll take you for an ice cream. Okay? The boy knows he's being dismissed. Looks from his dad to Amelia, who steps forward to give him a hug and a kiss.
amelia		We'll play some cards before you leave. Okay, then. He waves. One more glance at dad, and Gore goes. Gene gestures for Amelia to come with him, away from the mechanics. What's up? But he's already walking to... ...a little folding table, off in a corner.     She follows. Sits. Well...?       G
ene		You can't refuel in the air. Just like that.
amelia		s that an opinion or an order? His rueful smile.
gene		The only good thing about losing our former relationship is I feel a little freer to tell you when you're being completely crazy.
amelia		Oh, I bet there are more advantages than just that. No one's backing down on this.
gene		You're not a good enough pilot to o mid-air refueling. You will not be able to control the Electra or that docking maneuver for that amount of time.
amelia		I've taken bigger risks.
gene		I've noticed. Don't be so proud of it. He reaches into a pocket. Pulls out a folded sheet of paper. It opens to reveal a MAP of the Pacific. A dot is CIRCLED in red.
amelia		It's your vacation home.
gene		We're colonizing it, because when the Japanese make their move, we're going to need a refueling strip there. She blinks.   The Japanese.
amelia		Hullo, Fred. It's good to meet you. She holds out her hand. He juggles the mugs, so he can shake it. Strong look in each other's eyes. Hands her a mug...
fred		I hear you like your coffee black.
amelia		This time of day, I like it with bacon and eggs. His slight grin.       A handsome guy.
fred		Be right back.
amelia		Over easy on the eggs.      Your job could depend on it. Silence between them.       Comfortable smiles.
fred		Are we sizing me up? And, of course, this is exactly what she's doing.
amelia		I'm told that mid-air refueling would be beyond my abilities.
fred		Maybe, maybe not. 20% it works. 0% you crash. 60% you don't get he fuel, so you're cooked anyway.
amelia		Better odds of hitting that island?
red		How do you feel about 100%? Watching his eyes as he says that.    Evaluating.
amelia		Even with cloud cover?
fred		I've crossed the Pacific by air 18 times. Pan Am told you I'm the best celestial navigator they've ever seen.
amelia		They did.
fred		Someone else told you I have a drinking problem. Which is a big art of why we're here, yes? No answer.
amelia		My dad drank. He lied all the time. Rest his soul.
fred		You trusted Bill Stultz. That worked out. Rest his soul.
amelia		Bill just had to find Europe. We're looking for something less than two miles long, with nothing higher on it than 18 feet. He shakes his head.
fred		That's what you're looking for. I'm looking for coordinates on a map. And if it doesn't work... He spreads his large hands...
amelia		Did I pressure the navy to build a landing strip at Howland Island? How exactly would I do that? L         Threaten not to enlist? aughter in the room.   More flashes.
george		Wait a minute, you're flying around the world? Don't you know a woman's place is in the home?? The press ROARS with laughter.
george		I begged to go. But it seems that between 185 pounds of husband and
amelia		Who am I to argue with `experts?' I'll just give you my plain old common-sense thinking on this... Pens come up, cameras jockey for position. This is what they're waiting for. She holds up one finger. First...
fred		Lovely. We've got so much fuel we can't possibly get off the ground. Much safer than flying.
amelia		Well, we need enough for a third pass at Howland. After you miss it the first couple times around. Ah.
fred		Good thinking. he runway lights go ON, and...
fred		Good reaction, cutting the switch. You saved our ass. She doesn't even hear, THROWING open the cockpit, WAVING to signal they're all right, we SMASH CUT TO...
george		Three weeks, she'll be good as new. It's a remarkable crew. The best
amelia		...the best that money can buy. I just can't believe I've done this o us. All the money wasted that's never coming back.
george		You cut the engines. It would have cost a bundle more to replace a burned-up plane. Not to mention pilot. She shakes her head.    No.
amelia		I overreacted. The plane was too heavy, I should have used the rudder pedal instead of the throttle. Tears stand in her eyes. She is so ashamed and remorseful. He lets it stay silent as they walk. Then...
george		t's only money, we'll figure it out. We always do.
amelia		I'll make it back and more, I promise. The book sales, the lectures, this flight will keep us going another three years.
george		Maybe.   Or...
amelia		No, it will. Our prices, our sales, are going to double.
amelia		You mean after.
george		Or.     Even now. A strong smile.    He nods.     We could.
amelia		So my exit would be a stupid crash. nd withdrawing from a world- publicized attempt to finally do something no man had done before.
george		Yeh. That. And it would be fine ith me. Her eyes overwhelmed A his offer. by                  Her voice soft with...
melia		But that's because you're an idiot.
george		Lucky for you. A held beat.
amelia		And what if it's not something I have to show the world? Hmmn?
amelia		What if it's something I have to show me. He has no answer for that.       Takes her hand.   They head toward the house.
george		Have fun.
amelia		Who let you off the hook on this? She takes his hand firmly and together they cross the hangar toward Gene. He smiles, unfolds a third chair. As they arrive, Amelia steps forward... ...kisses Gene on the cheek.    George shakes his hand.
gene		Thanks for letting me come. As they sit, Gene looks from one to the other.
george		She'd outvote you all by herself. he does it to me every day. Gene's smile can't mask the concern in his eyes.
amelia		I don't have a choice. I have to reverse my route and fly east. If go west now, I'm risking hurricanes in the Caribbean and monsoons in Africa...
gene		But you're flying Howland last, when you're exhausted. She knows this.   In the silence...
eorge		Gene, this way our first leg is Oakland to Miami. It's a shakedown o make sure the plane is right. That's crucial. Gene nods, slowly.    His eyes still locked on her.
gene		Maybe I'm obsessing on Howland because it was my bright idea, and I'd feel responsible if...
amelia		Well, if I do pop off, I'll try to make it somewhere that's not your fault.
gene		I'd appreciate that. Draws a breath.
amelia		But I'll have Fred so I won't miss. In fact, I'm taking Fred along for this whole trip. Surprisingly, he doesn't seem to like this.   She smiles.
gene		You and Fred alone for a month...
amelia		If you're worried about his drinking, I'll deal with it. Straight look.
gene		How do you feel?
george		Tip-top. Every little girl needs a man around. Even strong girls like ours, hmmn? A very direct gaze.   Words neither said nor needed.
amelia		I'll be flying sky no one's ever been in. You made that happen. She looks down to his easy smile.
george		Hate to think where you'd be without me. She smiles back.       Tenderness we don't always see.
amelia		I'll try to make you proud.
george		You did that long, long ago. Only ne person left to prove yourself o. Just make sure you do it.
amelia		And then what?
george		Then the best part.    The future. She stares in his eyes.       Leans to him. AMELIA  Oh yeh.    That. She brings her hands to his face. Her mouth to his.      Deep. Longing. Her body sinks into him. LONG ANGLE.      Two alone.   Only each other.
amelia		If you'll fly the plane.   Make it twenty. And then...
george		We're saying he's cruel?
amelia		No.
george		Controlling?
amelia		Insecure.
george		Especially the mice.
amelia		Exactly. Each poor mouse thinks it's all about her. Staring at each other.
george		And one of them.    Is right. AMELIA  She knows. And then...
george		want you to give me something. He's never sounded quite like this before.
amelia		Don't you know I couldn't? Even if part of me wanted to. Very, very much. The look holds.
george		Well, I love you back.
amelia		Thanks. Takes a step back toward the hangar door. One hand slightly up, stay here. Then, the smile he's waited for.
amelia		That's more like it. She starts to TURN the plane around.
red		Black eagles. If one of those clips a propeller. Or flies into the engine... Her tired features form a smile.
amelia		've got an idea. Let's never land. Better safe than sorry. He takes her point.    She turns back to work...
fred		Cream, no sugar.
fred		Howland Island. He strikes a match. SNUFFS the flame. Puts the burned-out match head just by the scrap of cracker.
george		Mrs. Earhart? Mr. Earhart, here. He looks elegant in crisp suit and tie. INTERCUT: Amelia's eyes WIDE. She seems truly thrilled. INTERCUT BETWEEN THEM now throughout...
amelia		Oh, my goodness.   Simpkin, is it really you? George makes a PURRING sound.     A sharp MEOW.
george		It gets worse, I bought a brand-new suit and tie. Got a date with my wife.
amelia		We can't possibly afford this.
george		ure, we can. It's Tuesday's call o Lae that we can't afford. AMELIA  You hang up the phone this minute. You'll bankrupt us and I'll have to walk home.
george		easoning with me. A magnificent display of useless courage. Her eyes remember.    A soft...
amelia		..and it's fun. HOLD on her face.    And MATCH DISSOLVE TO...
fred		A touching love story, really. He's been drinking, we can hear it in his voice.   SEE the bottle now. Nearly gone.
amelia		An honest one. It's what you wanted. He nods.   That's right.
fred		I wonder if it's honest enough for George. If it's what he wanted. ou know.
amelia		If you mean Gene, we're not together anymore. In that way. Not for a long time.
fred		Whose choice was that? She doesn't like his tone.      Shifts in her seat.
amelia		It was mine.
fred		Well, isn't it always? You choose in, you choose out. Makes things easy.
amelia		Anything but easy. Are you disapproving of the way I live?
fred		Hell, no. It's just like me. In fact, it's like most guys I know. His smile.
melia		If you have a point, Fred.   Make it.
fred		Oh, I believe I have. She rises slowly. Zips her flight jacket.        Takes her slicker from the back of her chair.
amelia		Allow me to cut you a deal, my friend. Steel in the spine of that.
balfour		Ready, Mum. He stands and she takes his seat. He shows her the key to press, then steps back toward the window. But she makes no move to the radio. Just stares at him. He doesn't understand. AMELIA  Feel like stepping out for a smoke...?
balfour		I don't smoke.
amelia		...or something? Oh.   The monsoon beats down.
balfour		If you need help, I'll be right outside. In the rain.
amelia		Thank you.     I'll only be a moment.
eorge		You should be sleeping. He smiles to keep his voice up. The eyes aren't smiling.       We INTERCUT their conversation throughout...
amelia		You should be working.
george		I'm running a big adventure here, 'm a very important fellow.
amelia		You told me I was the star.   And you were no one at all. GEORGE  I thought I was lying. Guess the joke's on me. Silence.
amelia		I'm mad at him. I'll be in Honolulu on the 3rd, and with you in Oakland for Fourth of July. Okay?
george		Don't keep me waiting.
amelia		I won't dare. You're a very important feline. Uh, fellow.
george		Talk to me about Fred.
amelia		Fred is fine. He's calculating head-wind speed versus fuel as we speak. CLOSE on his face.
george		You wouldn't sell a salesman would you?
amelia		He's fine.
george		So what's that I hear in     your voice? A beat.
george		Is he drinking? AMELIA  I can handle it.
george		Call it off. Right now.      I mean it.
amelia		I can handle it. And then...
amelia		I love you. Silence.
george		After the Fourth.     We're going home.
amelia		Where's that?
george		For me?   Anywhere you are. She begins to cry. Both hands fly to her mouth and she looks away. She swallows hard.
amelia		I'm going to like it there. And then...
george		Well.    If you insist. She nods.   She does.
amelia		t's late here. Guess I'll go curl up under a teacup.
george		I'll go tell the world you're on your way. Neither wants to let go.      We feel it so strong. GEORGE  See ya. And he's gone.      She stares at the radio.
fred		You're finding the range. But it might be easier to just shoot me. She stares at him for a moment.       A subdued voice...
amelia		Traveling light, that's all. She sits on the lip of the hatch.       Her legs dangling.   Her eyes down.
fred		Got room for 190 pounds of asshole? No answer.       She's still looking down.   He's never seen her like this.
amelia		It's fine. Her eyes come up.
fred		I can run into town before we go. et that in the post for you. She shakes her head slowly.
amelia		It's for my husband. I'm going to hand it to him. So I can watch his face as he reads it. She sniffles slightly.
george		ire back. Tell him to forget the Morse Code. They didn't bring the receiver. The young man looks concerned.
cipriani		The direction finder.   How long has this been on? The seaman turns back at the door.   What?
bellarts		That's her on 3105. She said `cloudy and overcast.' O'Hare looks at him. Are you serious? Bellarts mimes typing with his fingers. O'Hare starts typing into the log.
bellarts		Commander estimated 7:00. If she's having trouble on voice transmission, stay with Morse. And begins to carefully pack his pipe.      Dalten begins to transmit Morse Code. DISSOLVE TO...
dalten		She's got to stay on longer. Bellarts dictating as O'Hare types...
bellarts		Earhart signal strength 4, but on
bellarts		Tommy, intercom top deck, double check the smoke stack... INTERCUT: AERIAL ANGLE high above the ship.       BLACK SMOKE PLUMES into clear sky...
thompson		You've got her signal, dammit. What about the direction finder?
bellarts		Cipriani reports the battery's dead, sir. It was left on all night. Full beat. THOMPSON  I don't believe this is happening.
****Dialogues from script :american_beauty.txt****

jane		I need a father who's a role model, not some horny geek-boy who's gonna spray his shorts whenever I bring a girlfriend home from school.  What a lame-o. Somebody really should put him out of his misery.
jane		 Yeah, would you?
carolyn		Good morning, Jim!
carolyn		 I just love your tie! That color!
carolyn		Well, I'll tell you. Egg shells and Miracle Grow.
carolyn		Jane. Honey. Are you trying to look unattractive?
jane		Yes.
carolyn		Well, congratulations. You've succeeded admirably.
carolyn		Lester, could you make me a little later, please? Because I'm not quite late enough.
jane		Nice going, Dad.
lester		Hello, this is Lester Burnham from Media Monthly magazine, I'm calling for Mr. Tamblin, please?... Well, we're all under a deadline here, uh, but you see, there is some basic information about the product launch that isn't even covered in your press release and I... Yeah. Can I ask you a question? Who is Tamblin? Does he exist? 'Cause he doesn't ever seem to come in... Yeah, okay, I'll leave my number...
brad		Hey Les. You got a minute?
lester		For you, Brad? I've got five.
brad		I'm sure you can understand our need to cut corners around here.
lester		Oh, sure. Times are tight, and you gotta free up cash. Gotta spend money to make money. Right?
brad		Exactly. So...
lester		 Like the time when Mr. Flournoy used the company MasterCard to pay for that hooker, and then she used the card numbers and stayed at the St. Regis for, what was it, like, three months?
brad		 That's unsubstantiated gossip.
lester		That's fifty thousand dollars. That's somebody's salary. That's somebody who's gonna get fired because Craig has to pay women to fuck him!
brad		Jesus. Calm down. Nobody's getting fired yet. That's why we're having everyone write out a job description, mapping out in detail how they contribute. That way, management can assess who's valuable and--
lester		Who's expendable.
brad		It's just business.
lester		 I've been writing for this magazine for fourteen years, Brad. You've been here how long, a whole month?
brad		 I'm one of the good guys, Les. I'm trying to level with you. This is your one chance to save your job.
carolyn		--there is no decision, you just write the damn thing!
lester		You don't think it's weird and kinda fascist?
carolyn		Possibly. But you don't want to be unemployed.
lester		Oh, well, let's just all sell our souls and work for Satan, because it's more convenient that way.
carolyn		Could you be just a little bit more dramatic, please, huh?
carolyn		So we've finally got new neighbors. You know, if the Lomans had let me represent them, instead of--  --"The Real Estate King," that house would never have sat on the market for six months.
lester		Well, they were still mad at you for cutting down their sycamore.
carolyn		Their sycamore? C'mon! A substantial portion of the root structure was on our property. You know that. How can you call it their sycamore? I wouldn't have the heart to just cut down something if it wasn't partially mine, which of course it was.
jane		Mom, do we always have to listen to this elevator music?
carolyn		 No. No, we don't. As soon as you've prepared a nutritious yet savory meal that I'm about to eat, you can listen to whatever you like.
lester		So Janie, how was school?
jane		 It was okay.
lester		Just okay?
jane		No, Dad. It was spec-tac-ular.
lester		Well, you want to know how things went at my job today?
lester		They've hired this efficiency expert, this really friendly guy named Brad, how perfect is that? And he's basically there to make it seem like they're justified in firing somebody, because they couldn't just come right out and say that, could they? No, no, that would be too... honest. And so they've asked us--  --you couldn't possibly care any less, could you?
jane		 Well, what do you expect? You can't all of a sudden be my best friend, just because you had a bad day.
jane		I mean, hello. You've barely even spoken to me for months.
lester		Oh, what, you're mother-of-the-year? You treat her like an employee.
carolyn		 What?!
carolyn		 What?
lester		I'm going to get some ice cream.
lester		Honey, I'm sorry. I...
lester		I'm sorry I haven't been more available, I just... I'm...
lester		 You know, you don't always have to wait for me to come to you...
jane		Oh, great. So now it's my fault?
lester		I didn't say that. It's nobody's fault. Janie, what happened? You and I used to be pals.
carolyn		I will sell this house today.
carolyn		I will sell this house today. I will sell this house today. I will sell this house today.
carolyn		I will sell this house today.
carolyn		Welcome. I'm Carolyn Burnham!
carolyn		This living room is very dramatic. Wait 'til you see the native stone fireplace!
carolyn		A simple cream would really lighten things up. You could even put in a skylight.
carolyn		Well, why don't we go into the kitchen?
carolyn		It's a dream come true for any cook. Just filled with positive energy. Huh?
carolyn		...and you'll be surprised how much a ceiling fan can cut down on your energy costs.
carolyn		You know, you could have some really fun backyard get-togethers out here.
carolyn		 What do you call this? Is this not a plant? If you have a problem with the plants, I can always call my landscape architect. Solved.
carolyn		I have some tiki torches in the garage.
carolyn		Shut up. Stop it. You... Weak!
carolyn		Weak. Baby. Shut up. Shut up! Shut up!
angela		Who are you looking for?
jane		My parents are coming tonight. They're trying to, you know, take an active interest in me.
angela		Gross. I hate it when my mom does that.
jane		They're such assholes. Why can't they just have their own lives?
lester		What makes you so sure she wants us to be there? Did she ask us to come?
carolyn		Of course not. She doesn't want us to know how important this is to her. But she's been practicing her steps for weeks.
lester		Well, I bet money she's going to resent it. And I'm missing the James Bond marathon on TNT.
carolyn		Lester, this is important. I'm sensing a real distance growing between you and Jane.
lester		Growing? She hates me.
carolyn		She's just willful.
lester		She hates you too.
announcer		 And now, for your half-time entertainment, Rockwell High's award- winning Dancing Spartanettes!
lester		We can leave right after this, right?
jane		Oh shit, they're still here.
lester		Janie!
carolyn		Hi! I really enjoyed that!
lester		Congratulations, honey, you were great.
jane		I didn't win anything.
lester		 Hi, I'm Lester. Janie's dad.
angela		Oh. Hi.
jane		This is my friend, Angela Hayes.
lester		Okay, good to meet you. You were also good tonight. Very... precise.
angela		 Thanks.
carolyn		 Okay, we have to go.
lester		So, what are you girls doing now?
jane		Dad.
angela		We're going out for pizza.
lester		Oh really, do you need a ride? We can give you a ride. I have a car. You wanna come with us?
angela		Thanks... but I have a car.
lester		Oh, you have a car. Oh. That's great! That's great, because Janie's thinking about getting a car soon too, aren't you, honey?
jane		 Dad. Mom's waiting for you.
lester		Well, it was very nice meeting you, Angela. Any, uh, friend of Janie's is a friend of mine.
lester		Well... I'll be seeing you around then.
jane		Could he be any more pathetic?
angela		I think it's sweet. And I think he and your mother have not had sex in a long time.
lester		It's the weirdest thing.
lester		I feel like I've been in a coma for about twenty years, and I'm just now waking up.
lester		Spec-tac-ular.
jane		I'm sorry my dad was so weird tonight.
angela		It's okay. I'm used to guys drooling over me. It started when I was about twelve, I'd go out to dinner with my parents. Every Thursday night, Red Lobster. And every guy there would stare at me when I walked in. And I knew what they were thinking. Just like I knew guys at school thought about me when they jerked off.
jane		Vomit.
angela		No, I liked it. And I still like it. If people I don't even know look at me and want to fuck me, it means I really have a shot at being a model. Which is great, because there's nothing worse in life than being ordinary.
jane		I really think it'll happen for you.
angela		Oh, I know. Because everything that was meant to happen, does. Eventually.
jane		Asshole.
angela		 Hello? Hello?
jane		Hello?
angela		Why'd you call me?
jane		I didn't.
angela		Well, my phone just rang and I answered it and somebody hung up and then I star sixty-nined and it called you back.
jane		I was in the shower.
jane		Oh, gross.
ricky		Be right there.
ricky		Mom.
barbara		Hello.
ricky		I don't eat bacon, remember?
barbara		 I'm sorry, I must have forgotten.
ricky		What's new in the world, Dad?
colonel		This country is going straight to hell.
colonel		Are you expecting anyone?
barbara		No.  No.
colonel		 Colonel Frank Fitts, U.S. Marine Corps.
colonel		Let's cut to the chase, okay? What are you guys selling?
colonel		Yeah, yeah, yeah. But you said you're partners. So what's your business?
colonel		How come these faggots always have to rub it in your face? How can they be so shameless?
ricky		That's the whole thing, Dad. They don't feel like it's anything to be ashamed of.
colonel		Well, it is.
ricky		Yeah, you're right.
colonel		Don't placate me like I'm your mother, boy.
ricky		Forgive me, sir, for speaking so bluntly, but those fags make me want to puke my fucking guts out.
colonel		Me too, son. Me too.
angela		I'm serious, he just pulled down his pants and yanked it out. You know, like, say hello to Mr. Happy.
angela		It wasn't gross. It was kind of cool.
angela		Of course I did. He is a really well- known photographer? He shoots for Elle on like, a regular basis? It would have been so majorly stupid of me to turn him down.
angela		Hey. That's how things really are. You just don't know, because you're this pampered little suburban chick.
angela		 I am so sick of people taking their insecurities out on me.
jane		Oh my God. That's the pervert who filmed me last night.
angela		Him? Jane. No way. He's a total lunatic.
jane		You know him?
angela		Yeah. We were on the same lunch shift when I was in ninth grade, and he would always say the most random, weird things, and then one day, he was just like, gone. And then, Connie Cardullo told me he his parents had to put him in a mental institution.
jane		Why? What did he do?
angela		What do you mean?
jane		Well, they can't put you away just for saying weird things.
angela		You total slut. You've got a crush on him.
jane		What? Please.
angela		You were defending him! You love him. You want to have like, ten thousand of his babies.
jane		Shut up.
ricky		Hi. My name's Ricky. I just moved next door to you.
jane		I know. I kinda remember this really creepy incident when you were filming me last night?
ricky		I didn't mean to scare you. I just think you're interesting.
jane		Thanks, but I really don't need to have some psycho obsessing about me right now.
ricky		I'm not obsessing. I'm just curious.
angela		What a freak. And why does he dress like a Bible salesman?
jane		He's like, so confident. That can't be real.
angela		I don't believe him. I mean, he didn't even like, look at me once.
ricky		Hey.
barbara		 I'm sorry, what?
ricky		Mom. Nobody said anything.
barbara		Oh. I'm sorry.
carolyn		--everyone here is with their spouse or their significant other. How would it look if I showed up with no one?
lester		Well, you always end up ignoring me and going off--
carolyn		Now listen to me. This is an important business function. As you know, my business is selling an image. And part of my job is to live that image--
lester		Just say whatever you want to say and spare me the propaganda.
carolyn		 Listen, just do me a favor. Act happy tonight?
lester		 I am happy, honey.
carolyn		 Oh! Buddy!
carolyn		 Buddy! Buddy. Hi! Good to see you again.
buddy		It's so good to see you too, Catherine.
carolyn		Carolyn.
buddy		Carolyn! Of course. How are you?
carolyn		Very well, thank you.  Hello, Christy.
christy		Hello.
carolyn		My husband, Lester--
buddy		 It's a pleasure.
lester		Oh, we've met before, actually. This thing last year. Or the Christmas thing at the Sheraton.
buddy		Oh, yes.
lester		It's okay. I wouldn't remember me either.
carolyn		 Honey. Don't be weird.
lester		All right, honey. I won't be weird.  I'll be whatever you want me to be.
lester		We have a very healthy relationship.
buddy		I see.
lester		Well. I don't know about you, but I need a drink.
lester		Whoa. Put a little more in there, cowboy.
ricky		Excuse me. Don't you live on Robin Hood Trail? The house with the red door?
lester		 Yeah.
ricky		I'm Ricky Fitts. I just moved into the house next to you.
lester		Oh. Hi, Ricky Fitts. I'm Lester Burnham.
ricky		Hi, Lester Burnham.
ricky		Do you party?
lester		Excuse me?
ricky		Do you get high?
carolyn		You know, I probably wouldn't even tell you this if I weren't a little tipsy, but... I am in complete awe of you. I mean, your firm is, hands down, the Rolls Royce of local Real Estate firms, and your personal sales record is, is, is very intimidating. You know, I'd love to sit down with you and just pick your brain, if you'd ever be willing. I suppose, technically, I'm the "competition," but... I mean, hey, I don't flatter myself that I'm even in the same league as you...
buddy		I'd love to.
carolyn		 Really?
buddy		Absolutely. Call my secretary and have her schedule a lunch.
carolyn		I'll do that. Thank you.
lester		...did you ever see that movie, where the body's walking around holding its own head? And then the head goes down on that babe?
ricky		Re-Animator.
catering boss		 ...do whatever it is you're doing out here.
ricky		Fine. So don't pay me.
catering boss		Excuse me?
ricky		I quit. So you don't have to pay me. Now, leave me alone.
catering boss		Asshole.
lester		I think you just became my personal hero.  Doesn't that make you nervous, just quitting your job like that? Well, I guess when you're all of, what? Sixteen?
ricky		Eighteen.  I just do these gigs as a cover. I have other sources of income. But my dad interferes less in my life when I pretend to be an upstanding young citizen with a respectable job.
carolyn		What are you doing?
lester		Honey, this is...  Ricky Fitts. This is Ricky Fitts.
ricky		I'm Ricky Fitts, I just moved in the house next to you. I go to school with your daughter.
lester		With Jane? Really?
ricky		Yeah. Jane.
carolyn		Hi.  I'm ready to go. I'll meet you out front.
lester		Uh-oh. I'm in trouble. Nice meeting you, Ricky Fitts. Thanks for the, uh, thing.
ricky		Any time.
ricky		 Lester. If you want any more, you know where I live.
jane		Oh, shit. They're home. Quick, let's go up to my room.
angela		I should say hi to your dad.  I don't want to be rude.
angela		You're looking good, Mr. Burnham.
angela		Last time I saw you, you looked kind of wound up.  Ooh, is that root beer?
angela		I love root beer, don't you?
jane		Mom, you remember Angela.
carolyn		 Yes, of course!
jane		I forgot to tell you, she's spending the night. Is that okay?
lester		Sure!
jane		I'm sorry about my dad.
angela		Don't be. I think it's funny.
jane		Yeah, to you, he's just another guy who wants to jump your bones. But to me... he's just too embarrassing to live.
angela		Your mom's the one who's embarrassing. What a phony.
angela		Your dad's actually kind of cute.
jane		Shut up.
jane		Shut up.
angela		Oh, come on. Like you've never sneaked a peek at him in his underwear? I bet he's got a big dick.
jane		You are so grossing me out right now.
angela		 If he built up his chest and arms, I would totally fuck him.
jane		Yeah, it was the sound of you being a huge disgusting pig.
angela		I'm serious.
angela		See?
angela		 Oh my God. Jane.
angela		It's that psycho next door. Jane, what if he worships you? What if he's got a shrine with pictures of you surrounded by dead people's heads and stuff?
jane		Shit. I bet he's filming us right now.
angela		 Really?
lester		Shit. Shit!
ricky		Welcome to America's Weirdest Home Videos.
ricky		Coming, Dad.
ricky		I'm sorry, I must have locked it by accident. So what's up?
colonel		I need a urine sample.
ricky		Wow. It's been six months already. Can I give it to you in the morning? I just took a whiz.
colonel		Yeah, I suppose.  Well. Good night, son.
angela		I've been waiting for you.
angela		You've been working out, haven't you? I can tell.
angela		I was hoping you'd give me a bath... I'm very, very dirty.
carolyn		What are you doing?
lester		Nothing.
carolyn		You were masturbating.
lester		I was not.
carolyn		Yes, you were.
lester		All right, so shoot me. I was whacking off.
lester		That's right. I was choking the bishop. Shaving the carrot. Saying hi to my monster.
carolyn		That's disgusting.
lester		Well, excuse me, but I still have blood pumping through my veins!
carolyn		So do I!
lester		Really? I'm the only one who seems to be doing anything about it.
carolyn		Lester. I refuse to live like this. This is not a marriage.
lester		This hasn't been a marriage for years. But you were happy as long as I kept my mouth shut. Well, guess what? I've changed. And the new me whacks off when he feels horny, because you're obviously not going to help me out in that department.
carolyn		Oh. I see. You think you're the only one who's sexually frustrated?
lester		I'm not? Well then, come on, baby! I'm ready.
carolyn		 Do not mess with me, mister, or I will divorce you so fast it'll make your head spin!
lester		On what grounds? I'm not a drunk, I don't fuck other women, I don't mistreat you, I've never hit you, or even tried to touch you since you made it so abundantly clear just how unnecessary you consider me to be. But. I did support you while you got your license. And some people might think that entitles me to half of what's yours.
lester		Turn out the light when you come to bed, okay?
lester		It's a great thing when you realize you still have the ability to surprise yourself. Makes you wonder what else you can do that you've forgotten about.
lester		Hey! You guys!
lester		 Well, I just started.
lester		I figured you guys might be able to give me some pointers. I need to shape up. Fast.
lester		I want to look good naked.
colonel		What is this, the fucking gay pride parade?
lester		Hey! Yo! Ricky!  My entire life is passing before my eyes, and those two have barely broken a sweat.
lester		Sorry, hi. Lester Burnham, I live next door. We haven't met.
colonel		 COLONEL Frank Fitts, U.S. Marine Corps.
lester		Whoa. Welcome to the neighborhood, sir.
lester		So, Ricky, uh, I was thinking about the, uh... I was gonna... the movie we talked about...
ricky		 Re-Animator.
lester		Yeah!
ricky		You want to borrow it?  Okay, it's up in my room. Come on.
ricky		Can you hold this for a sec?
lester		Sure.
ricky		I don't think my dad would try to come in when somebody else is here, but you never know.
lester		 What is this?
ricky		Urine. I have to take a drug test every six months to make sure I'm clean.
lester		Are you kidding? You just smoked with me last night.
ricky		It's not mine. One of my clients is a nurse in a pediatrician's office. I cut her a deal, she keeps me in clean piss.
lester		You like Pink Floyd?
ricky		I like a lot of music.
lester		Man, I haven't listened to this album in years.
ricky		How much do you want?
lester		I don't know, it's been a while. How much is an ounce?
ricky		 Well, this is totally decent, and it's three hundred.
lester		Wow.
ricky		 But this shit is top of the line. It's called G-13. Genetically engineered by the U.S. Government. Extremely potent. But a completely mellow high, no paranoia.
lester		Is that what we smoked last night?
ricky		This is all I ever smoke.
lester		How much?
ricky		Two grand.
ricky		You don't have to pay now. I know you're good for it.
lester		Thanks.
ricky		 There's a card in there with my beeper number, call me anytime day or night. And I only accept cash.
lester		 Well, now I know how you can afford all this equipment. When I was your age, I flipped burgers all summer just to be able to buy an eight track.
ricky		That sucks.
lester		No actually, it was great. All I did was party and get laid.  I had my whole life ahead of me...
ricky		My dad thinks I pay for all this with catering jobs.  Never underestimate the power of denial.
lester		Uh-oh, mom's mad.
carolyn		What the hell do you think you're doing?
lester		Bench presses. I'm going to wail on my pecs, and then I'm going to do my back.
carolyn		I see you're smoking pot now. I'm so glad. I think using illegal psychotropic substances is a very positive example to set for our daughter.
lester		You're one to talk, you bloodless, money- grubbing freak.
carolyn		 Lester. You have such hostility in you!
lester		Do you mind? I'm trying to work out here.  Unless you want to spot me.
carolyn		You will not get away with this. You can be sure of that!
lester		 That's. What. You. Think.
brad		 Well, you obviously have no interest in saving yourself.
lester		 Brad, for fourteen years I've been a whore for the advertising industry. The only way I could save myself now is if I start firebombing.
brad		Whatever. Management wants you gone by the end of the day.
lester		Well, just what sort of severance package is "management" prepared to offer me? 
lester		Considering the information I have about our editorial director buying pussy with company money.
lester		Which I'm sure would interest the I.R.S., since it technically constitutes fraud. And I'm sure that some of our advertisers and rival publications might like to know about it as well. Not to mention, Craig's wife.
brad		What do you want?
lester		One year's salary, with benefits.
brad		That's not going to happen.
lester		Well, what do you say I throw in a little sexual harassment charge to boot?
brad		Against who?
lester		Against you.
lester		Can you prove you didn't offer to save my job if I'd let you blow me?
brad		Man. You are one twisted fuck.
lester		 Nope. I'm just an ordinary guy with nothing to lose.
lester		Yeah!
buddy		Carolyn.
carolyn		Buddy.
buddy		I'm so sorry I kept you waiting. Christy left for New York this morning, and... let's just say things were very hectic around the house.
carolyn		What's she doing in New York?
buddy		She's moving there.  Yes. We are splitting up.
carolyn		Buddy. I'm so sorry.
buddy		 Ah, it's for the best.
carolyn		When I saw you two at the party the other night, you seemed perfectly happy.
buddy		Well, call me crazy, but it is my philosophy that in order to be successful, one must project an image of success, at all times.
angela		Why?
angela		I think maybe you forgot your medication today, mental boy.
jane		 Look. I want you to stop filming me.
ricky		Okay.
angela		Well, whatever.  This is boring. Let's go.
jane		 Do you need a ride?
angela		 Are you crazy? I don't want to end up hacked to pieces in a dumpster somewhere.
ricky		It's okay. I'll walk. But thanks.
angela		Yeah, see? He doesn't want to go anyway. C'mon, let's go.
jane		 I think I'm going to walk, too.
angela		What? Jane, that's like, almost a mile.
carolyn		Yes! Oh, God! I love it!
buddy		You like getting nailed by the king?
carolyn		Oh yes! I love it! Fuck me, your majesty!
lester		AMERICAN WOMAN, STAY AWAY FROM ME... AMERICAN WOMAN, MAMA LET ME BE... DON'T COME A HANGIN' AROUND MY DOOR... I DON'T WANT TO SEE YOUR FACE NO MORE...
lester		What?
lester		Uh... no. But thank you.  I'll have a Big Barn Burger, Smiley fries, and an orange soda.
counter girl		Would you like some Smiley Sauce?
lester		No. No, actually... I'd like to fill out an application.
counter girl		There's not jobs for manager, it's just for counter.
lester		Good. I'm looking for the least possible amount of responsibility.
manager		I don't think you'd fit in here.
lester		I have fast food experience.
manager		Yeah, like twenty years ago.
lester		Well, I'm sure there have been amazing technological advances in the industry, but surely you have some sort of training process. It seems unfair to presume I won't be able to learn.
carolyn		That was exactly what I needed. The royal treatment, so to speak.
carolyn		I was so stressed out.
buddy		Know what I do when I feel like that?
carolyn		What?
buddy		I fire a gun.
carolyn		 Really.
buddy		Oh yeah, I go to this little firing range downtown, and I just pop off a few rounds.
carolyn		 I've never fired a gun before.
buddy		Oh, you've gotta try it. Nothing makes you feel more powerful.  Well, almost nothing.
jane		So how do you like your new house?
ricky		I like it.
jane		The people who used to live there fed these stray cats, so they were always around, and it drove my mother nuts. And then she cut down their tree.
ricky		Have you ever known anybody who died?
jane		No.  Have you?
ricky		No, but I did see this homeless woman who froze to death once. Just laying there on the sidewalk. She looked really sad.
ricky		I got that homeless woman on video.
jane		Why would you film that?
ricky		Because it was amazing.
jane		What was amazing about it?
ricky		When you see something like that, it's like God is looking right at you, just for a second. And if you're careful, you can look right back.
jane		And what do you see?
ricky		Beauty.
ricky		Mom, I want you to meet somebody.  Mom.
barbara		 Yes?
ricky		I want you to meet somebody. This is Jane.
jane		Hi.
barbara		Oh, my. I apologize for the way things look around here.
ricky		This is where my dad hides out.
jane		I take it he's got a thing for guns.
ricky		You got to see this one thing...
ricky		My dad would kill me if he knew I was in here.
jane		Did you steal his keys?
ricky		No. One of my clients is a locksmith. He was short on cash one night, so I let him pay me in trade.
ricky		Turn it over.
jane		Oh my God.
ricky		It's like official state china of the Third Reich. There's a whole subculture of people who collect this Nazi shit. But my dad just has this one thing.
ricky		What's wrong?
jane		Nothing.
ricky		 No, you're scared of me.
jane		No I'm not.
ricky		You want to see the most beautiful thing I've ever filmed?
ricky		It was one of those days when it's a minute away from snowing. And there's this electricity in the air, you can almost hear it, right? And this bag was just... dancing with me. Like a little kid begging me to play with it. For fifteen minutes. That's the day I realized that there was this entire life behind things, and this incredibly benevolent force that wanted me to know there was no reason to be afraid. Ever.
ricky		Video's a poor excuse, I know. But it helps me remember... I need to remember...
ricky		 Sometimes there's so much beauty in the world I feel like I can't take it... and my heart is going to cave in.
jane		 Oh my God. What time is it?
jane		Sorry I'm late.
carolyn		 Why don't you tell our daughter about it, honey?
lester		Janie, today I quit my job. And then I told my boss to fuck himself, and then I blackmailed him for almost sixty thousand dollars. Pass the asparagus.
carolyn		Your father seems to think this kind of behavior is something to be proud of.
lester		And your mother seems to prefer I go through life like a fucking prisoner while she keeps my dick in a mason jar under the sink.
carolyn		 How dare you speak to me that way in front of her? And I marvel that you can be so contemptuous of me, on the same day that you lose your job!
lester		Lose it? I didn't lose it. It's not like, "Oops, where'd my job go?" I quit. Someone pass me the asparagus.
carolyn		Oh! Oh! And I want to thank you for putting me under the added pressure of being the sole breadwinner now--
lester		I already have a job.
carolyn		 No, no, don't give a second thought as to who's going to pay the mortgage. We'll just leave it all up to Carolyn. You mean, you're going to take care of everything now, Carolyn? Yes. I don't mind. I really don't. You mean, everything? You don't mind having the sole responsibility, your husband feels he can just quit his job--
lester		 Will someone pass me the fucking asparagus?
jane		 Okay, I'm not going to be a part of this--
lester		 Sit down.
lester		I'm sick and tired of being treated    like I don't exist. You two do whatever    you want to do whenever you want to do    it and I don't complain. All I want is the    same courtesy--
carolyn		 Oh, you don't complain? Oh, excuse me. Excuse me. I must be psychotic then, if you don't complain. What is this?! Am I locked away in a padded cell somewhere, hallucinating? That's the only explanation I can think of--
lester		 Don't interrupt me, honey.
lester		Oh, and another thing. From now on, we're going to alternate our dinner music. Because frankly, and I don't think I'm alone here, I'm really tired of this Lawrence Welk shit.
jane		Go. Away.
carolyn		I wish that you hadn't witnessed that awful scene tonight. But in a way, I'm glad.
jane		Why, so I could see what freaks you and Dad really are?
carolyn		Me?
jane		Aw, Christ, Mom.
carolyn		 You cannot count on anyone except yourself. It's sad, but true, and the sooner you learn it, the better.
jane		Look, Mom, I really don't feel like having a Kodak moment here, okay?
carolyn		You ungrateful little brat. Just look at everything you have. When I was your age, I lived in a duplex. We didn't even have our own house.
colonel		You little bastard--
colonel		How did you get in there?
colonel		 How!? How?! C'mon, get up! Fight back, you little pussy!
ricky		No, sir. I won't fight you.
colonel		How did you get in there?
ricky		I picked the lock, sir.
colonel		What were you looking for? Money? Are you on dope again?
ricky		No, sir. I wanted to show my girlfriend your Nazi plate.
colonel		Girlfriend?
ricky		Yes, sir. She lives next door.
ricky		Her name's Jane.
colonel		This is for your own good, boy. You have no respect for other people's things, for authority, for...
ricky		Sir, I'm sorry.
colonel		You can't just go around doing whatever you feel like, you can't--there are rules in life--
ricky		Yes, sir.
colonel		You need structure, you need discipline--
ricky		 Discipline. Yes, sir, thank you for trying to teach me. Don't give up on me, Dad.
colonel		Oh, Ricky...
colonel		You stay out of there.
attendant		 I gotta say, Mrs. Burnham, when you first came here I thought you would be hopeless. But you're a natural.
carolyn		Well, all I know is... I love shooting this gun!
lester		What?
carolyn		Ah, whose car is that out front?
lester		Mine. 1970 Pontiac Firebird. The car I always wanted and now I have it. I rule!
carolyn		Where's the Camry?
lester		I traded it in.
carolyn		Shouldn't you have consulted me first?
lester		Hmm, let me think... No. You never drove it.  Have you done something different? You look great.
carolyn		 Where's Jane?
lester		Jane not home. We have the whole house to ourselves.
lester		Christ, Carolyn. When did you become so... joyless?
carolyn		 Joyless?! I am not joyless! There happens to be a lot about me that you don't know, mister smarty man. There is plenty of joy in my life.
lester		 Whatever happened to that girl who used to fake seizures at frat parties when she got bored? And who used to run up to the roof of our first apartment building to flash the traffic helicopters? Have you totally forgotten about her? Because I haven't.
carolyn		 Lester. You're going to spill beer on the couch.
lester		So what? It's just a couch.
carolyn		This is a four thousand dollar sofa upholstered in Italian silk. This is not "just a couch."
lester		It's just a couch!
lester		This isn't life. This is just stuff. And it's become more important to you than living. Well, honey, that's just nuts.
lester		 I'm only trying to help you.
jane		 Don't.
ricky		Why?
jane		 It's weird, watching myself. I don't like how I look.
ricky		I can't believe you don't know how beautiful you are.
jane		I'm not going to sit here for that shit.
jane		Ha. How does it feel now?
ricky		Fine.
jane		You don't feel naked?
ricky		I am naked.
jane		You know what I mean.
jane		Tell me about being in the hospital.
ricky		When I was fifteen, my dad caught me smoking dope. He totally freaked and decided to send me to military school. I told you his whole thing about structure and discipline, right?  That's when my dad put me in the hospital. Then they drugged me up and left me in there for two years.
jane		Wow. You must really hate him.
ricky		He's not a bad man.
jane		Well... you better believe I'd hate my father if he did something like that to me.  Wait. I do hate my father.
ricky		Why?
jane		He's a total asshole and he's got this crush on my friend Angela and it's disgusting.
ricky		You'd rather he had the crush on you?
jane		Gross, no! But it'd be nice if I was anywhere near as important to him as she is. 
jane		I know you think my dad's harmless, but you're wrong. He's doing massive psychological damage to me.
ricky		How?
jane		Well, now, I too need structure. A little fucking discipline.
jane		I'm serious, though. How could he not be damaging me? I need a father who's a role model, not some horny geek-boy who's gonna spray his shorts whenever I bring a girlfriend home from school.  What a lame-o. Somebody really should put him out of his misery.
ricky		Want me to kill him for you?
jane		Yeah, would you?
ricky		 It'll cost you.
jane		Well, I've been baby-sitting since I was about ten. I've got almost three thousand dollars. 'Course, I was saving it up for a boob job.
jane		But my tits can wait, huh?
ricky		You know, that's not a very nice thing to do, hiring somebody to kill your dad.
jane		Well, I guess I'm just not a very nice girl, then, am I?
jane		 You know I'm not serious, right?
ricky		Of course.
ricky		Do you know how lucky we are to have found each other?
lester		Remember those posters that said, "Today is the first day of the rest of your life?" Well, that's true of every day except one.  The day you die.
carolyn		Jane, hurry up. I've got a very important appointment--
jane		Mom, is it okay if Angela sleeps over tonight?
carolyn		Well, of course, she's always welcome.  You know, I thought maybe you two had a fight. I haven't seen her around here in a while.
lester		What?
jane		 I've been too embarrassed to bring her over. Because of you, and the way that you behave.
lester		What are you talking about? I've barely even spoken to her.
jane		 Dad! You stare at her all the time, like you're drunk! It's disgusting!
lester		 You better watch yourself, Janie, or you're going to turn into a real bitch, just like your mother.
lester		 Fuck.
colonel		 You ready to go?
ricky		Oh, I don't need a ride. I'm going to go in with Jane and her mom.
lester		Yo, Ricky. How's it going?
ricky		Pretty decent, Mr. Burnham.
lester		You need more than that, my little hombre.
carolyn		I think we deserve a little junk food, after the workout we had this morning.
buddy		 I'm flattered.
lester		 Smile! You're at Mr. Smiley's!
carolyn		 Buddy, this is my--
lester		Her husband. We've met before, but something tells me you're going to remember me this time.
counter girl		 Whoa. You are so busted.
carolyn		 You know, this really doesn't concern you.
lester		Actually, Janeane is senior drive-thru manager, so you kind of are on her turf.  So. This makes sense.
carolyn		 Oh, Lester--
lester		Honey, it's okay. I want you to be happy.  Would you like Smiley Sauce with that?
carolyn		Lester, just stop it!
lester		Uh-uh. You don't get to tell me what to do. Ever again.
buddy		I'm sorry. I guess we should cool it for a while. I'm facing a potentially very expensive divorce.
carolyn		Oh, no. I understand completely.  In order to be successful, one must project an image of success. At all times.
carolyn		Stop it. Stop it!
lester		Shit.
ricky		 I have to run next door. Jane left her geometry book in my bag and she needs it to do her homework.
angela		So you and psycho boy are fucking on like, a regular basis now, right?
jane		 No.
angela		Oh, come on. You can tell me. Does he have a big dick?
jane		Look, I'm not gonna talk about his dick with you, okay? It's not like that.
angela		Not like what? Doesn't he have one?  Why don't you want to talk about it? I mean, I tell you every single detail about every guy that I fuck.
jane		Yeah, and maybe you shouldn't, all right? Maybe I don't really want to hear all that.
angela		Oh, so now that you have a boyfriend, you're like, above it?  We gotta get you a real man.
ricky		 You got any papers?
lester		Yeah, in the cigar box, right over there.  You know, put up a fight, dude! You are such a pushover. "No I can't. Really. Okay."
ricky		You should learn to roll a joint.
lester		Oh. Hi.
jane		Where's Mom?
lester		Don't know.
angela		Hi, Mr. Burnham.
lester		Hi.
angela		Wow. Look at you. Have you been working out?
lester		Some.
angela		You can really tell. Look at those arms.
lester		You like muscles?
angela		I--I should probably go see what Jane's up to.
ricky		From my job.
colonel		Don't lie to me.  I saw you with him.
ricky		 You were watching me?
colonel		What did he make you do?
ricky		 Dad, you don't really think... me and Mr. Burnham?
colonel		I will not sit back and watch my only son become a cocksucker!
ricky		Jesus, what is with you--
colonel		I swear to God, I will throw you out of this house and never look at you again.
ricky		 You mean that?
colonel		Damn straight I do. I'd rather you were dead than be a fucking faggot.
ricky		You're right. I suck dick for money.
colonel		Boy--
ricky		Two thousand dollars. I'm that good.
colonel		Get out.
ricky		And you should see me fuck. I'm the best piece of ass in three states.
colonel		 Get out!! I don't ever want to see you again!!
ricky		What a sad old man you are.
colonel		 Get out.
ricky		Mom, I'm leaving.
barbara		Okay, wear a raincoat.
ricky		 I wish things would have been better for you. Take care of Dad.
tape voice		--disinvesting problems of their power, and removing their ability to make us afraid. This is the secret to "me- centered" living. 
tape voice		Only by taking full responsibility for your problems--and their solutions--will you ever be able to break free from the constant cycle of victimhood.
tape voice		Remember, you are only a victim if you choose to be a victim...
jane		I don't think we could be friends anymore.
angela		You are way too uptight about sex.
jane		Just don't fuck my dad, all right? Please?
angela		Why not?
jane		 Dad! Leave us alone!
ricky		 If I had to leave tonight, would you come with me?
jane		What?
ricky		If I had to go to New York. To live. Tonight. Would you come with me?
jane		Yes.
angela		You guys can't be serious.  You're just a kid. And he's like, a mental case. You'll end up living in a box on the street.
jane		I'm no more a kid than you are!  We can use my plastic surgery money.
ricky		We won't have to. I have over forty thousand dollars. And I know people in the city who can help us get set up.
angela		What, other drug dealers?
ricky		Yes.
angela		Jane, you'd be out of your mind to go with him.
jane		Why do you even care?
angela		Because you're my friend!
ricky		She's not your friend. She's somebody you use to feel better about yourself.
angela		Go fuck yourself, psycho!
jane		You shut up, bitch!
angela		Jane! He is a freak!
jane		Well, then so am I! And we'll always be freaks and we'll never be like other people. And you'll never be a freak because you're just too perfect.
angela		Oh, yeah? Well, at least I'm not ugly.
ricky		Yes, you are. And you're boring. And you're totally ordinary. And you know it.
angela		You two deserve each other.
lester		Jesus, man. You're soaked.
lester		You want me to get Ricky? He's in Jane's room.
lester		You okay?
colonel		 Where's your wife?
lester		Uh... I don't know. Probably out fucking that dorky prince of real estate asshole. And you know what? I don't care.
colonel		Your wife is with another man and you don't care?
lester		Nope, our marriage is just for show. A commercial, for how normal we are. When we are anything but.
lester		You're shaking.
lester		We really should get you out of these clothes.
colonel		 Yes...
lester		It's okay.
lester		 Just tell me what you need.
lester		Whoa, whoa, whoa. I'm sorry. You got the wrong idea.
tape voice		"I refuse to be a victim." When this becomes your mantra, constantly running through your head--
carolyn		I refuse to be a victim.
angela		I hope you don't mind if I play the stereo.
lester		Not at all.  Bad night?
angela		Not really bad, just... strange.
lester		 Believe me. It couldn't possibly be any stranger than mine.
angela		Jane and I had a fight.  It was about you.
angela		She's mad at me because I said I think you're sexy.
lester		 Do you want a sip?
lester		So... are you going to tell me? What you want?
angela		I don't know.
lester		You don't know?
angela		What do you want?
lester		Are you kidding? I want you. I've wanted you since the first moment I saw you. You are the most beautiful thing I have ever seen.
angela		You don't think I'm ordinary?
lester		You couldn't be ordinary if you tried.
angela		Thank you.  I don't think there's anything worse than being ordinary...
carolyn		I refuse to be a victim. I refuse to be a victim. I refuse to be a victim...  Lester, I have something I have to say to you...
jane		Are you scared?
ricky		I don't get scared.
jane		My parents will try to find me.
ricky		Mine won't.
angela		This is my first time.
lester		You're kidding.
angela		 I'm sorry.
angela		I still want to do it... I just thought I should tell you... in case you wondered why I wasn't... better.
angela		 What's wrong? I thought you said I was beautiful.
lester		 You are beautiful.
lester		You are so beautiful... and I would be a very lucky man...
angela		I feel so stupid.
lester		Don't.
angela		I'm sorry.
lester		You have nothing to be sorry about.
lester		 It's okay. Everything's okay.
angela		Wow. I was starving.
lester		Do you want me to make you another one?
angela		No, no, no. I'm fine.
lester		 You sure?
angela		I mean, I'm still a little weirded out, but...  ...I feel better. Thanks.
lester		How's Jane?
angela		What do you mean?
lester		I mean, how's her life? Is she happy? Is she miserable? I'd really like to know, and she'd die before she'd ever tell me about it.
angela		She's... she's really happy. She thinks she's in love.
lester		 Good for her.
angela		How are you?
lester		 I'm great.
angela		 I've gotta go to the bathroom.
lester		 I'm great.
lester		Man oh man...  Man oh man oh man...
jane		Oh God.
ricky		 Wow.
****Dialogues from script :american_gangster.txt****

final shooting script		July 27, 2006
bumpy		The corner grocery's a supermarket. Candy store's a MacDonald's. And this place. 
bumpy		What right do they have cutting out the suppliers, pushing all the middlemen out, buying direct from the manufacturer - Sony this, Toshiba that, all them Chinks - putting Americans out of work?
bumpy		What am I supposed to do with a place like this, Frank? Who am I supposed to ask for, the assistant manager?  This is the problem. This is the way it is now: You can't find the heart of anything to stick the knife.
frank		What is it?
bumpy		Forget it, Frank. No one's in charge.
reporter		- whose passing has brought together a who's who of mourners on this chilly afternoon. The Governor has come down. The mayor of New York - its Chief of Police and Commissioner - sports and entertainment luminaries -
tosca		White wine, please.
banker		How you doing, Frank?
frank		All right.
banker		What a loss. 
banker		Bumpy set something up for you?
tango		Hey, Frank, get me an ashtray while you're at it.
charlie		I know you're hurting, Frank.    So am I.
charlie		You going to be all right?
frank		Yeah.
charlie		I'm sure Bumpy never told you, but he made me promise, anything ever happened to him, I'd make sure you didn't go without.
frank		I'll be fine, Charlie. Half the people here owed Bumpy money when he died. A lot of money. If they think I'm going to forget to collect, they're wrong.
charlie		That's the spirit. Go get them.
professor		Mr. Roberts, Give us U.S. vs. Meade -
richie		I don't like being like that.     I want to beat it.
clerk		Hey -
richie		He knows me, he'll take it from me. I've known him since high school.
campizi		I swear to God, Richie, I didn't know it was you. I would never slam a door on your hand. Knowingly.
richie		You bit my fuckin hand -
campizi		What can we do, Richie? You don't want to do this. For old times sake, what can we do? Who do you want? Who can I give you? You want Big Sal's bookie? You want his accountant? I'll give him to you.
trupo		Now just enough for the reagent test.
rossi		They basically control the market with it. What the fuck has happened to the world, Frank?
frank		Fuckin crooks.
rossi		Sad about Bumpy.
rossi		Things are never going to be the same in Harlem. The girls, the clubs, the music - walk down the street, nobody bothers you because Bumpy's making sure of it.  How bad is it there now?
frank		It's chaos.    Every gorilla for himself.
rossi		Who can live like that? There has to be order. That would never happen with Italians. More important than any one man's life - is order.
frank		Thank you, Charlene.      Last one.
charlene		It's all right with me, Frank, you can stay all day if you want, but I wouldn't. It's nice outside.
frank		Then maybe I'll have to go for a walk. Just cause you said so.
red top		On the house for our men in uniform.
serviceman 1		Why, thank you, sugar, that's very kind.
red top		Thank Frank.
frank		How's Nate?   You seen him?
serviceman 1		All the time. Nate is everywhere. He's good. Got himself a club now.
frank		Where, Saigon?
serviceman 1		Bangkok.
serviceman 2		I don't think he's ever coming home.
frank		You're gonna have to boot it a couple times. Cops keep cutting it, selling it, cutting it -
serviceman 1		I don't want to say anything cause the price is right - but the shit in Nam is way, way, way, way, way -
campizi		That's him.
richie		All right.   Get lost.    Get out.
richie		Let's see who comes for the car.
richie		We saw him with the slips, Javy.
richie		Yes, I do, and so do you, don't give me that bullshit -
richie		I got night school.
richie		Not when it's less.
richie		Than what I make now.
richie		They do in the Prosecutor's Office. Three thousand less. RIVERA You're fuckin kidding me.
richie		Fuck this -
richie		Check inside.
richie		Javy ...
richie		This isn't a couple of bucks.
richie		We're talking about principle?
richie		 Yes, we are.
toback		How much.
richie		Nine hundred and eighty thousand.
toback		What happened to the rest?
toback		What're you doing counting this in front of everybody? Are you out of your fuckin mind? Take it into a room. Now.
tango		Didn't you see the jar, Frank? I think you walked right past it.
tango		The money jar. On the corner.      What I got to do, put a sign on it?
tango		Bumpy don't own 116th Street no more, Frank. Bumpy don't own no real estate in Harlem no more. I'm the landlord now and the lease is twenty-percent.
tango		Then don't sell dope, Frank. Get a fuckin job. You need a job? You can be my driver, drive me around, open my door, yes, sir, no sir, where to, sir, right away, Massa Johnson, sir.
frank		Twenty percent?
tango		Of every dollar. Every VIG, every truckload, every girl, every ounce.      In the jar.
frank		Twenty percent's my profit. If I'm giving it to you then what am I doing? Twenty percent puts me, and everyone you know, out of business, which puts you out of business.  There are ways to make money legitimately, and then there's this way. Not even Bumpy took twenty percent.
tango		Bumpy's fuckin dead.
frank		There.   That's twenty-percent.
bumpy		He's got the stick - the cane - and he'll use if he has to. 
bumpy		What right do they have cutting out the suppliers, the middlemen, buying direct, putting Americans out of work ... This is the way it is now, Frank.
frank		Get yourself a new suit.
richie		I'm sorry.
laurie		I don't know, Richie.
richie		It couldn't be avoided. Next weekend I'll be able to take him.
laurie		I'm moving.
richie		What?   Where?
laurie		To the St. Regis, what do you care.  My sister's.
richie		Your sister's. In Vegas?
richie		You can't move to Vegas.     Not with Michael anyway.
laurie		What am I supposed to do with him?       Leave him with you? There's a picture.
richie		 Hey, you want to shut up over there?
richie		No court will allow it for one thing. I won't allow it.
laurie		You?
richie		When am I supposed to see my son?
laurie		Last weekend!
richie		Laurie, you can't raise a kid in Las Vegas.
laurie		Oh, like this is a good environment. Around your friends. There are less creeps in Vegas.
richie		What's he going to grow up to be in a mobbed up place like that? What are you thinking?
laurie		I'm thinking - Richie - of him!
richie		Goddamn it -
richie		I told you nice to shut the fuck up. Now I'm gonna kill you.
richie		Pick up the fuckin glass!
thai		He say how much he wants?
nate		He said "a lot." What that means, I don't know. Four or five keys?
thai		He's your cousin.
nate		My cousin-in-law.    My ex-wife's cousin.
thai		Ask him how much he wants.
nate		How much you gonna want, Frank?
frank		A hundred kilos.
nate		No one I know can get that much. It'd have to be pieced together from several suppliers and none of it's gonna be 100- percent pure.
frank		That's not what I want.
nate		I know that. But that means dealing with the Chiu-Chou syndicates in Cholon or Saigon - if they'll deal with you -
frank		No, even then it's too late. It's been chopped. I want to get it where they get it. From the source.
nate		You're gonna go get it.
frank		Why not.
nate		You're gonna go into the fuckin jungle -
frank		I've lived in jungles all my  -
nate		No. This is the jungle. Tigers. Vietcong. The fuckin snakes alone will kill you.
nate		He says this whole area's controlled by the Kuomintang - Chiang Kai-Shek's defeated army.
frank		They ain't Chinese.
general		How would you get it into the States?
frank		What do you care?
general		Who do you work for in there?
frank		What do you care?
general		Who are you really?
frank		It says right there.   Frank Lucas.
general		I mean, who you represent?
frank		Me.
general		You think you're going to take a hundred kilos of heroin into the US and you don't work for anyone? Someone is going to allow that?
general		I don't believe a word of this.
general		After this first purchase, if you're not killed by Marseilles importers - or their people in the States - then what?
frank		Then there'd be more. On a regular basis. Though I'd rather not have to drag my ass all the way up here every time.
general		Of course not.
colonel		Where's it now?
nate		Bangkok. I can bring it here or anywhere in between.
colonel		A hundred kilos.  I never seen that much dope in one place. NATE It's bigger than an Amana refrigerator- freezer.
nate		Fifty grand. In advance. That'll cover them, the pilots and the guys on the other end.
frank		Give them a hundred.
nate		Fifty, to cover them all.
frank		A hundred. And it's all I got left. So if that dope doesn't arrive, for whatever reason -  Cousin or no cousin - don't let me down.
nate		I'll let you know when it's in the air.
richie		Is he dead?
richie		Where are you? Javy, where are you?
dispatcher		There are no cars in that area, Detective Roberts.
richie		Bullshit. I got a man in trouble and I need back-up.
dispatcher		I missed that - you're breaking up -
richie		I said, put the fucking call out again -
dispatcher		I just did. No one responded.     I'll try again, but -
paramedic		You got no back-up? Why is that?
richie		Bandage his head.
paramedic		Detective ... he's dead.
richie		I know he's fucking dead. Bandage his head, clean him up, put him on a gurney and prop it up so he's sitting. And open his eyes.
richie		Step back, injured man coming out. Let them do their job and he'll be all right. Ma'am. Excuse me. Step back. Sir. Please.
richie		You robbed him, didn't you.
richie		This.   Where'd this come from?
richie		You lying piece of shit -
richie		Yeah.
richie		You robbed him, and then you shot him, and I helped you get out of there. How many more you shot? 
richie		You're a disgrace.
richie		Don't look down there. Look here.  You ever fuckin threaten me again, I'll kill you.
army captain		Open the trunk.
chemist		Typically what I see is 25 to 45 percent pure. I've never seen anything like this. No alkaloids, no adulterants, no dilutents. It's a hundred percent. May I?
jimmy		Yeah ... for you.
teddy		Who is it?
teddy		Yeah.
teddy		Who's this?
teddy		Frank who?
sheila		I'm not talking about your proclivities, Richie. Those I only know too well. I'm talking about being a cop.
richie		About taking money? I don't care about money. I don't do that.
sheila		Because it'll come out. You're going to have to sit down with shrinks and social workers, her lawyers, the judge, lots of questions.
richie		What's going on there?
richie		I play softball on Sundays with some guys.
sheila		Wise guys.    That's going to look good.
richie		I grew up with them, big deal.
sheila		What about Anthony Zaca?
richie		What about him? SHEILA Richie, I'm just trying to understand things your wife has said. If they're not true, tell me.
richie		Yeah, Tony's one of them.
sheila		Is he also your son's godfather?
sheila		Do you really care about this? Or do you just not want her to win - ever. How often do you see your son as it is?
richie		Not enough.   But she wants to make it never.
bailiff		All rise -
turner		He got an arm on him.     Major League arm, ain't that right.
frank		You show me after supper.
turner		You can't catch him. He'll take your head off. We're talking 95-mile-an-hour. You know how fast that is? You see the ball leave his hand, and that's the last you see it before it knocks you down.
frank		 Is that right.
frank		This is your room.
frank		I had it made. From memory. MRS. LUCAS You were five when they took it away. How could you remember it?
frank		I remember.
frank		I was with him every day for fifteen of them, looking after him, taking care of things, protecting him, learning from him.
frank		Bumpy was rich, but never white   man rich. Why? Because he didn't own the    company. He thought he did. He didn't.     He only managed it. Someone else owned    it. So they owned him.
frank		Nobody owns me. Because I own my company.
frank		And my company sells a product that's better than the competition's at a price that's lower.
teddy		What are we selling, Frank?
redtop		Hi, Frank.
frank		Honey, these are my brothers.
frank		What matters in business is honesty, integrity, hard work, loyalty, and never forgetting where you came from.
frank		I'll be right back.
frank		Hey, Tango, what's up.    I was just thinking about you. 
tango		The fuck you want, Frank -
tango		What're you going to do, boy? Shoot me in broad daylight? In front of everyone?
frank		Yeah, that's right.
frank		For the cops. Should be enough.
frank		That basically's the whole picture right there.
detective		Did you know his girlfriend? Good- looking girl. One of his informants.
richie		Beth.
detective		Should've seen their place.    Like animals lived there.
richie		I have seen it.
detective		 Chose a good night, huh?   Grand Central Station in here.
medical examiner		It's been like this. I'm lucky I get home before midnight; lots of careless- ness.
richie		But it's federal. I'd have to answer to who? FBI?
toback		Me and the U.S. Attorney. No one else. No FBI. Hoover knows better than to mix his men with dope. Too much temptation for the feeble-minded.
richie		You know why I don't have it.
toback		Doesn't matter.
richie		No, they're all on the take and I'm not and it doesn't matter to anyone. Instead of giving you a medal for turning in money, they bury you.
toback		It's fucked up. You're right. Maybe this's an opportunity away from all that.
richie		I'll do it, but only like this: I don't set foot in a police station again. I work out of a place of my own. And I pick my own guys. Guys I know wouldn't take a nickel off the sidewalk.
toback		Done.
richie		This is the only floor we'll be using.
frank		No loan, no contingencies.    Cash sale.
singer		Mr. Joe Louis, ladies and gentlemen.
frank		Who's the beauty queen?
charlie		She is a beauty queen.    No kidding. Miss Puerto Rico. Her glance crosses Frank's briefly but is yanked to the entrance of the club when Frank's brothers come in with their wives and girlfriends. Teddy's in a parrot green suit, gold chains, hat, acting like he owns the place.
frank		What is this?
teddy		What. These are clothes.     This is a very nice  -
frank		I'm wearing clothes. These are clothes. Those -  - are a costume. With a sign on it that says Arrest me. You look like fuckin Jackie Fox.
teddy		What's wrong with Jackie.    I like Jackie.
frank		You like Jackie? You want to be Superfly? Go work for him, end up in a cell with him.
frank		The guy making all the noise in the room is the weak one. That's not who you want to be.
teddy		He wants to talk to you by the way.     I told him I'd tell you.
frank		You and Jackie were talking about me?
teddy		Not about you. We were talking. He said he wanted to talk to you about something.
frank		I'm taking you shopping tomorrow.
teddy		I went shopping today.
frank		You go shopping every day.    Like a girl.
joe louis		It's a tax thing. It's a mistake my lawyers will straighten out, but for the time being it's a headache -
frank		How much you owe?
joe louis		It's nothing, like - fifty grand.
frank		Sure.   Don't worry about it.
joe louis		Thank you.   I'll pay you back soon as -
frank		Joe. It's a gift. Not a loan.       You don't owe me nothing.
ana		Hi.   I'm Ana.
frank		I'm Frank.
ana		You're Frank and this is your place.  Why's it called Small's? Why don't you call it Frank's?
frank		Because I don't have to.
richie		I'm reluctant to bring anyone in I don't personally know.
spearman		You know me, and I vouch for them.
spearman		Richie, we work together. You want me, you got to take them, too.
richie		Where are they? Spearman looks out across the crowded dance floor.
spearman		That's Jones. With the skinny white woman.
spearman		That's Abruzzo, with the fat black one.
spearman		Both are good with wires. Have good informants. They're honest. And they're fearless. They'll do anything. They're insane, Richie, like you.
frank		I got it.
frank		I hope you weren't waiting long. A woman as beautiful as you shouldn't have to wait for anything.
ana		This is your father?
frank		You really don't know who that is?  It's Martin Luther King.
ana		It is not.
frank		You're right. He was as important as Dr. King, though. 
ana		What'd he do?
frank		A lot of things. He had a lot of friends. He served New York and it served him.
ana		What was he to you?
frank		Teacher.
ana		What'd he teach you?
frank		How to take my time ... how if you're going to do something, do it with care ... do it with love.
ana		Anything else?
frank		How be a gentleman.
ana		That's what you are?
frank		I got five different apartments in the city I could've taken you to. I brought you here instead -
frank		To meet my mother.
richie		Our mandate is to make major arrests. No street guys - we want the suppliers - the distributors.
richie		Heroin, cocaine, amphetamines. No grass under a thousand pounds. Less than that, someone else can waste their time.
richie		We'll be handling big shipments, big money, big temptation.  Yeah.
jones		There's a story about you. About turning in some money. A lot of money. Is it true?
richie		It's not true.
jones		Stuff's ten percent pure. Strong enough to smoke for all those suburban white kids afraid of needles.
richie		You paid ten bucks for it?
jones		And it's all that's out there.
richie		Now, how is that possible? Who can afford to sell shit twice as good for half as much? Richie glances to a Table of Organization: Surveillance photos haphazardly thumb-tacked to a bulletin board - known dope men in the hierarchies of their individual crime families - almost all of them Italian.
teddy		We're going to be here all night if we count every bill.
banker		You got a stockbroker, Frank?
frank		I deal with enough crooks as it is.
banker		This one couldn't be more honest. Ask around. He's got a lot of clients in the business. You can't leave all your money in safety deposit boxes; give him a call.
charlie		Frank.   This is Mike Sibota.
frank		Mr. Sibota.   What can I get you?
sibota		A left-hander from what Charlie tells me. Your nephew?
frank		It's been his dream all his life to play for the Yankees - and he's good enough.
sibota		So I hear. You have him come see me. We'll give him a try-out.
detective		What's this?  Oh, that's it, I'm taking you in.
jimmy		 You can't take me in for that, I got       a license for that, motherfucker.
detective		 But first -
detective		All right, now I'm arresting you.
teddy		Let him go.   This is for you.
detective		What is that, a bribe?     Oh, now you're all under arrest. 
jimmy		What is that?
detective		I'm taking you all in.
jimmy		I said, what the fuck was that?
detective		What was what?
jimmy		Oh, he's all right. I just shot him in the leg. You got a health plan, what are you complaining about. He's fine. Here -  Five hundred all right? Six? Look, he's feeling better all the time.
frank		I can't have this kind of stupidity.
teddy		It was an accident.   He feels terrible about it.
frank		He doesn't feel shit, coked up all the time. Get rid of him.
teddy		Frank. He's your cousin. What's he gonna do? Go back home? I'll talk to him. I'll straighten him out.
frank		Gimme those glasses.
teddy		What?   Why?
jones		Ice Pick Paul goes here -
abruzzo		No, he's under Benny Two-Socks -
jones		No, you're thinking of Benny the Bishop. Benny Two-Socks is Tosca's deadbeat son- in-law. SPEARMAN Jonesy's right.
jones		What're you doing?     We just -
toback		This is more than a year's salary, Richie. If it disappears, I won't be able to get it for you again.
richie		It'll never be out of my sight.
richie		It's got to be `Blue Magic.'
mechanic		Yeah, yeah, it's `Blue.' You can pick it up here tomorrow. Where's the rest of the money?
richie		That's half. I'll give you the other half tomorrow when you give -
mechanic		No, no, no, I don't do that.    Go fuck yourself.
spearman		He's going into New York.   Are we?
richie		What are they going to do, arrest us?
spearman		They could. New York cops.     They can do worse than that.
richie		We're not losing that money.    Go.
richie		Get out.
taxi driver		What?
richie		Get the fuck out of the car!
richie		That's my money.
richie		The bills are sequenced and registered with the Essex County Prosecutors Office.
richie		Honest mistake. Just give it back to me.
trupo		When's the last time I was in Jersey? Let me think. Never. What're you doing coming over here without letting anybody know? You don't know you can get hurt doing that? 
richie		Yeah, I know, like everyone else. Some of them will steal no matter what. There can be a camera on them they'll do it. Some'll never do it. The rest are capable of either, depending how their department leans ... Only theirs isn't leaning, it's fallen over. The patrol cars don't even stop in Harlem, just roll down the window so the dealers can throw the money in. I saw drops made on precinct steps. TOBACK What were you doing there?
richie		It's where this dope is coming from. Blue Magic. Out of New York. What am I supposed to do, ignore it?
toback		The cab driver's filed aggravated assault and grand theft charges -
richie		Then my investigation's over.
toback		You're not listening to me. I said: I don't want to hear about it ... You do whatever you have to do, go wherever you have to go to find out who's bringing this shit into the country ... Just don't tell me.  Get some sleep. A150 - 152 OMIT                                       A150 - 152 OMIT
tony		When you asked me to be your son's godfather, I took it very seriously.
richie		I know.
tony		I said yes, I'd take on this responsibility, take care of your son, God forbid something happened to you -
richie		Tony, the things she's telling Child Social Services make me look very bad: Out all night. Lowlife informants hanging around.   Women -
tony		Old friends like me.
tony		It's all right. I understand. They ask me, I'll tell them what you want me to tell them. I'll lie for you.
richie		Thank you.
tony		What.
richie		You don't have to talk about it, you don't want. What do you hear about Blue Magic? Anything?
tony		A lot of sorrow and misery from guys being put out of business. That's all. 
richie		Nothing about who's bringing it in?
tony		Guys down south is all I heard.
richie		Down south, Florida?   Cubans?   What.
tony		I don't know. All I can tell you is whoever it is, they're upsetting the natural order of things.
tosca		Pull -
ana		It's very nice.
frank		Pull -
tosca		She's a lovely girl.    You should marry her.
frank		Too many things to look after right now to think about that.
tosca		Frank. That's a mistake. If I may say. Don't take her for granted, girl like that.
tosca		You interested in history, Frank? The events that have brought us to where we are today? You know who was? Bumpy.
frank		Bumpy was interested in a lot of things.
tosca		I always wonder if people know when history's being made. And what they're doing at the time. This, for instance, could be a historic moment, and you're sipping a glass of ice water.
frank		He didn't have what you needed. You had what he needed. We've always had to come to you.
tosca		Yes.   Until now.
tosca		Monopolies are illegal in this country, Frank, because no one can compete with a monopoly. If they let the dairy farmers do that, half of them would go out of business tomorrow.
frank		I'm just trying to make a living.
tosca		Which is your right. Because this is America. But not at the unreasonable expense of others. That's un-American.  You know the price you pay for a gallon of milk doesn't represent its true cost of production. It's controlled. Set.
frank		I set a price I think is fair.
tosca		It's very unfair, in fact. Your customers are happy, but what about your fellow dairy farmers? You're not thinking of them.
frank		 I'm thinking of them as much as they ever thought of me.
tosca		All right. I can see you're getting excited. Don't get excited. That's not why I invited you to my home. To get excited.
tosca		Here, I got something for you.
tosca		Now what if - I'm just thinking out loud - you sold some of your inventory wholesale and I helped with the distribution. 
frank		I don't need it. I already got everything from 110th Street to Yankee Stadium, river to river.
tosca		Which is a little mom and pop store compared to what I'm talking about. I could make you bigger than K-Mart. L.A., Chicago, Detroit, Vegas. I'm speaking nationwide. And I'd guarantee you peace of mind. You know what I mean by that.
tosca		Frank. You can see I'm a Renaissance man. Unfortunately not all my people are as enlightened. Ask them, What is civil rights, they don't know. They're not as open to change from the way things are done and who's doing it. But I can talk to them so there won't be any misunderstanding. That's what I mean by peace of mind.
frank		You pay what a kilo now, 75, 80? I'd consider 50. And I can get you as much as you want. Tosca slips on his best poker face. Fifty thousand a kilo would be an extraordinary coup for him.
tosca		You see, I was right. This is a historic moment. You're going to be bigger than Bumpy himself.
tosca		Can't smoke it here, unfortunately. Grace doesn't like it. Take it with you.
ana		Why would you trust these people, the way they look at you?
frank		They look at me like it's Christmas and I'm Santa Claus.
ana		They looked at us like we're the help.
frank		 No.   They're working for me now.
ana		Yes.
ana		I bought you something, too.
frank		What is it?
ana		Come on. You look great.  You want to miss the fight? Come on.
tosca		Hey, Frank, you keep that hat on, I'm gonna miss the fight -
richie		That's is the plate number on the limo. Check with the company, who rented it.
spearman		He's a supplier at most. Or just a pimp. We'd've heard of him otherwise.
richie		No, he's bigger than that. His seats were phenomenal; better than Al Tosca's. Joe Louis and Ali shook his fuckin hand.
richie		Originally from Greensboro, North Carolina. Couple of arrests years ago. Gambling, robbery, unlicensed firearm. 
richie		Five brothers, he's the oldest, lots of cousins, all living here now, spread out around the boroughs and Jersey. The brothers are -
richie		Except for the chinchilla coat, which no one can explain, Frank's life seems orderly and legitimate.
richie		Then goes to work. Meeting with his accountant, or lawyer, dropping in on one of the several office buildings he owns.
richie		Nights, he usually stays home. When he does go out, it's to a club or dinner - with his new wife - friends, celebrities, sports figures - never O.C. guys.
richie		Sundays he takes his mother to church. Then drives out to change the flowers on Bumpy's grave. Every Sunday, no matter what.
toback		Not your typical day in the life of a dope man, Richie.
richie		Neither was Bumpy Johnson's and he owned Harlem.
toback		You think Frank Lucas took over for Bumpy Johnson? His driver? That's a little far-fetched.
richie		Is it?   Everything he does, he does like Bumpy.
toback		Bumpy never wore a chinchilla coat in his life.
richie		We haven't seen that again. That apparently has been retired to the closet.
charlie		She's the most beautiful bride I ever saw, Frank.
frank		I wish Bumpy could've met her.     I wish she could've met him.
richie		Won't get any informants. Not inside. It's like a Sicilian family. Like he's structured his own family the same way to protect himself.
richie		Being with Bumpy long as he was, he would have been around Italians a lot. Enough to learn that much.
richie		But it's not even Frank Lucas I want. I want to know who he's working for: Which Italians are bringing the heroin in.
trupo		Hello, Frank.
frank		Detective.
trupo		You sure you done the right thing? She's a beautiful girl - there's no question - but she's got an attitude on  -
frank		Listen   to me. Before you say another word -   about her - or me - remember that you're   saying it on the most important fuckin   day of my life.
trupo		Man walks around in a fifty thousand dollar chinchilla coat and he never even bought me a cup of coffee? Something wrong there.
frank		I don't know what you're talking about.
trupo		You pay your bills, Frank?
frank		You want to keep talking, talk to my lawyer, here's his card. You call him, because we're done here -
trupo		Do you pay your bills, I asked you.
frank		If you're not getting your share, it's not my fault, go ask the chief of police.
trupo		What's my share? You don't even know me. Maybe I'm special.
frank		No, you're all the fuckin same.
frank		Detective ... There are some things you don't do. This is one of them. Not on a man's wedding day.
trupo		Have a nice honeymoon.
jimmy		Where is it?
darylynn		Fuck you, I'm not telling you. She comes past the TV and into the kitchen past a table covered with dope paraphernalia.
jimmy		Where is my fuckin dope? You and your girlfriends take it again? I'll fuckin kill you.
sheila		Richie, yes, fuck me like a cop, not a lawyer -  No, no, no -
richie		Yeah -
richie		Because it's an attempted homicide, that's Grand Jury. Now, that Grand Jury could come in very favorably. Might turn out to be Attempted Manslaughter. Self Defense even. She had a knife. Depends on how I want to deal with you. You see where this is going.
jimmy		The fuck is this place?
richie		Let's say you beat it somehow. What do you think Cousin Frank'll think of that? He knows you had to sit here listening to something like this. And then you beat an attempted murder? Is he stupid? He'll assume you talked.
richie		You fucked up, Jimmy. But nobody knows. Frank doesn't know. Yet. Do you want him to read about it in the paper? Or do you want to walk out of here - no bail, no trial - just walk out, now.  206   EXT. NARCOTICS SQUAD HQ - NEWARK - DAWN                          206  Jimmy has thought about it all night and walks out of the building into the chilly morning air.  RICHIE V/O Jimmy?   Look at me -  Jimmy looks over his shoulder as if Richie just called to him from it, which he didn't. There's no one in sight -  RICHIE V/O Any time I want to change my mind? I don't like the quality of your work? I can find a witness saw you shoot your girlfriend. It just took me a while. I even know what he'll look like. He'll look just like you.  207   EXT. MEAT PACKING DISTRICT - DAY                                 207  Teddy's car comes around a corner and down the street.  208   INT. TEDDY'S CAR - MOVING - DAY                                  208  Jimmy Racine, wired, looks in the rear view mirror at Teddy in the back seat, and, behind him, Richie's car following. 209   INT. RICHIE'S CAR - SAME TIME                                    209  Richie keeps Teddy's car in view ahead. Glances in his mirror at the cars following him. His detectives.  210   EXT. MEAT PACKING DISTRICT - LATER - DAY                         210  The detectives' cars parked behind a warehouse. Richie peers into binoculars at: Teddy's car parked by Frank's outside another warehouse loading dock. Frank gets out, discusses something with his brother, comes past Jimmy to some men in bloody white coats.  He talks to them, returns to his car, takes a valise from the trunk. He snaps it open revealing stacks of cash, hands it over and walks to a semi-truck, glancing once in Richie's direction. Though he can't see anyone there he gives a wave to them - or is it to the truck driver to pull out - 
frank		Stevie. Come over here. 
stevie		I don't want to play pro ball, I decided.
frank		What're you   talking about? This is your dream since   you were their age -  Maybe I can   set it up again.
stevie		It's not what I want. I want to do what you do, Uncle Frank. I want to be you.
teddy		We got a problem.
teddy		He's been cutting it so much it's down to two, three percent pure. FRANK You tested it. You're sure.
frank		The fuck you looking at?
jackie		Frank.   Welcome.
frank		We need to talk.
jackie		Great.   Girls, get out.
jackie		You talked to Charlie. You want to hear more about my Black Coalition. Let me explain it to you -
frank		That's not why I'm here.  Everybody's happy, Jackie. Charlie, Baz, the cops, the Italians, everybody. Everybody except you.
jackie		I'm happy.
frank		Then I don't understand. Why do you have to take something that's perfectly good the way it is, and wreck it?
frank		Brand names mean something, Jackie. Consumers rely on them to know what they're getting. They know the company isn't going to try to fool them with an inferior product. They buy a Ford, they know they're gonna get a Ford. 
jackie		What the fuck are you talking about, Frank?
frank		What you're doing, as far as I'm concerned, when you chop my dope down to five percent, is trademark infringement.
jackie		With all due respect, Frank, if I buy something, I can do whatever I want with it.
frank		That's not true. That's where you're wrong.
jackie		If I buy a car, I can paint it, God damn it.
frank		Jackie, you don't need to. You don't need to make more money than you can with Blue the way it is. No one does. At a certain point it's just greed.
jackie		What do you want, Frank?    You want me to call it something else?
frank		I have to insist. You call it Blue Magic, that's misrepresentation.
jackie		Fine. I'll call it Red Magic, even though it doesn't sound as good.
frank		That's all I'm saying.   Wrap it in red cellophane and - 
jackie		Pink Magic.   Black Magic -
frank		Whack it down to nothing, tie a bow around it and call it Blue Dogshit if you want, just don't let me catch you doing this again.
jackie		Catch me? Insist? Infringement? I don't like these words as much as please - thank you - sorry to bother you, Jackie. These are better words to use you come into my place without an invitation.
teddy		Give me the keys; take a cab home.
frank		You don't go over there any more.
frank		It's all right, pull over, what are they going to do? Give us a ticket?
teddy		Frank?   Some of it's in the trunk.
trupo		Hello, Frank.
frank		Detective. How's it going?        You have a nice Thanksgiving?
trupo		I did not, as a matter of fact.       Get out of the car.
frank		Where's the Shelby?
trupo		The Shelby's gone, Frank.
trupo		Now what are we gonna do about this?
frank		We're gonna shut the trunk and say good night, forget you pulled us over.
trupo		I got a better idea.
trupo		Or would you rather I took it all and threw you and your brother in the fuckin river?
frank		I don't know, would you rather it's your fuckin house blows up next time?
trupo		I loved that car.
frank		I know.
trupo		Let's go.
frank		Don't you ever put me in a car with dope in it.
richie		Yeah.   Tony.    How's it going?
richie		This is nice, where's this?
tony		Aspen.   Just got back.    Had a great time.
richie		I'd like to ski Aspen some day. TONY Know who we met? Burt Reynolds. I'm not kidding. Lot of people from Hollywood go up there now, buying up everything.
richie		This is your place?
tony		Are you kidding? You know what it's worth? Ski-in-ski-out, five bedrooms, sauna, everything. We were guests.  No ... No, that's your place.
tony		Isn't there something we can do - about leaving the big guy alone? You know who I mean.
richie		If I don't report what you just said to me, you know I could be in a lot of trouble. If I do, then it's you.
tony		I'm hoping you won't do that.
tony		I'm not taping it. How do you know? Because we're friends and I'm telling you. This is a real offer.
richie		Tell Marie I'm sorry I had to leave. You can tell her why.
richie		INS, FBI, IRS - I can't get anything out of them. Nothing on his travel, his bank accounts, property holdings - nothing.
toback		That's because they all think you're on the take and you think they are.
spearman		Richie.   Excuse me.
richie		Who took it out? 
fbi agent		We can't say without compromising our source. You understand.
richie		No.    I don't. Not when it's my life.
fbi agent		If you want, we can assign someone to you.
richie		Who?    FBI?   You're going to protect me?
man		Don't shoot!    For God's sake.
richie		Talk.
man		Are you Richard Roberts?      I got a subpoena.
richie		Laurie. I'm sorry I couldn't give you the kind of life you wanted. I'm sorry it was never enough. But don't punish me for being honest. Don't take my son away.
laurie		What are you saying? That because you were "honest" and didn't take money like every other cop, I left you?
laurie		You don't take money for one reason: to buy being dishonest about everything else. And that's worse than taking money nobody gives a shit about - drug money, gambling money nobody's gonna miss.  I'd rather you took it and been honest with me. Or don't take it, I don't care. But don't then go cheat on me. Don't cheat on your kid by never being around. Don't go out and get laid by your snitches and secretaries and strippers. I can tell just by looking, she's one of them.
laurie		You think you're going to heaven because your "honest." You're not. You're going to the same hell as the crooked cops you can't stand.
bailiff		All rise - 232   INT. COURTROOM - LATER - DAY                                     232
sheila		Your honor, a lot has been said here today about how unsavory Mr. Roberts' environment is for a child. How dangerous it is. I'm sorry, but this is our world. This is where we live and we tell him, Protect us. We give him that responsibility, and then say, Oh, but we don't trust you to raise a child. We don't think you're fit for that.
richie		I'm not.
richie		You're right. This is no place for him. Around me. Take him. The further away the better. For him.
doc		Frank -
frank		Yeah, I see them.
frank		Here you go, boys.   Merry Christmas.
frank		Paying cops is one thing, I understand that. I been paying them since I was ten - put more of their kids through college than the National Merit Award. This is different, this Special Investigations Unit. They think they are special.
charlie		They're fucking crooks.   No code of ethics.
frank		Someone's been following me. Besides cops. I see cars where they shouldn't be. Guys I don't know -
charlie		Me, too.
frank		Bumpy hardly ever went out at a certain point. He stayed in - read - watched TV - played chess. I thought he chose to lead a quiet life. He didn't. He couldn't go out without something happening.
ana		We can still go out.
frank		Where? With who? Everyone I know is under surveillance. I can't even be with my family at Christmas anymore.
ana		Why don't you just pay who you have to pay?
frank		I do pay them, I pay them all. Cops, accountants, lawyers, who don't I pay? Everybody. I pay them a fortune, it doesn't matter. It doesn't satisfy them. The more you pay, the more they expect. 
frank		Put on something nice, we're going out.
frank		Keep going.
doc		Around back?
frank		Fuck that. I'm not going to sneak into my own club. Just drive.
ana		I'm going to wait in the car.
doc		Go ahead, Frank.       I'll wait for it.
frank		You can carry it all?      We ordered a lot.
frank		Don't forget the yellow sauce. 244 OMIT                                                            244 OMIT
frank		Doc's got the keys.   Let's go back.
ana		The lights give me a headache, you go.
frank		I'm not leaving you on the street.
ana		Get the keys, Frank, it's cold.
doc		Gimme some of that yellow sauce.
doc		You hit?
frank		What the fuck was that?
frank		Who didn't like Charlie?   Everybody liked Charlie ...
ana		Who shot at us?  It doesn't matter. We're leaving.
frank		Go home.   Go see your kids.
frank		What are you doing?     Where've you been?
ana		We're leaving from here.      Money's in the car.
frank		What money?
ana		Everything from your mother's house.
frank		In your car?
ana		Yes.
frank		Where's the car?
ana		Out front. FRANK With ten million dollars in it?
ana		I didn't count it.
frank		Are you crazy? Take it back to Teaneck. What are you doing driving around without security? Doc'll take you back.
ana		We're not going there, we're going to the airport. We're leaving the country.
frank		To go where?    No, we're not.
ana		Frank, Charlie's dead. They tried to kill us. What else has to happen - ?
frank		Shhh.   Come on, now.   Shhh.
frank		Where are we going to go? Spain? China? Which fuckin place is it going to be?
ana		We can go anywhere we want.     We can live anywhere.
frank		We can run and hide is what you're saying.
frank		This is where I'm from. This is where my family is. My business. My mother. This is my place. This is my country. This is America.
spearman		Said he'll only talk to you.
trupo		From what I hear, it was the Corsicans. The French Connection, Fernando Rey, the exporters Frank has put out of business. Now, I can take care of him in New York, but I don't want to have to worry every time he drives across the bridge to Jersey someone's gonna take another shot at him.
trupo		We need to start working together. We need to step up our efforts. Next time their aim could be better. We need to keep this cash cow alive.
trupo		Jesus. What the fuck you doing here? You actually going to arrest Frank Lucas? What's the matter with you?
richie		I'm crazy. Can't you tell that? I'm crazy enough to shoot someone and make it look like an accident next time he comes over the bridge without my permission. Get the fuck out of New Jersey.
frank		"I can guarantee you peace of mind," you said. Do I look like a man with peace of mind to you? They shot at my wife. Who does that? 
tosca		I don't know that it was any of them, Frank. Neither do you.
frank		Then maybe I'll kill them all just to make a fuckin point.
tosca		You want to know who it was? I can tell you. It was a junkie. Or a rival. Or some dumb ass kid trying to make a name for himself. Or someone you forgot to pay off. Or slighted without realizing it. Or someone you put out of business by being too successful.  Success has a lot of enemies. Your success is who took a shot at you. How you gonna kill it? By being unsuccessful? You can be successful and have enemies, or unsuccessful and have friends. It's the choice we make.
nate		Hello?
frank		I'm watching the news.     Where the hell's everyone going?
nate		Home.    The war's over.
frank		Just like that? We're going to leave the fuckin country to the communists?
nate		We been here since 1961, Frank.
frank		I haven't!
general		Opium plants are hearty enough to outlive any war. They'll still be here long after the troops are gone. But what are you going to do for transportation when the last US plane goes home?
frank		I'll figure something out.      You'll see me again. The General seems fond of Frank, and not only because of all the money on the table.
general		It's not in my best interest to say this, Frank ... but quitting while you're ahead is not the same as quitting.
frank		That's what my wife thinks.
general		But you don't think she's right.
frank		Give them half!
frank		Cut half of them loose!      The mules!
frank		Tomorrow will be fine.
teddy		Short Term Lot 3. This the Mustang were talking about ... Camero? ... What's the plate number? 
abruzzo		There's no Short Term Lot 3 at Newark. They're lettered, A, B, C, D -
jimmy		I'm just telling you what I heard -
abruzzo		Then you heard wrong!
jones		And this isn't a Jersey plate. Or New York. Not with just two letters. It's three and three, not two and three -
jimmy		It's what he said -
jones		Then what the fuck is it -
jimmy		The fuck should I know -
abruzzo		You're fuckin lying -
jimmy		It's what he said.   I'm sure.
spearman		KA 760 -
jimmy		Yes!
richie		None of you ever been in the service? It's an Air Force tail number.
richie		Captain, I'm Richard Roberts, Director of the Essex County Narcotics Bureau.
trupo		Your husband's illustrious career is over. The Feds are going to come in and take it all. Everything. But not before I get my gratuity. Where's the money?
ana		There was some on that dresser, but it's gone now so I guess you  -
trupo		The money! The getaway money Frank and every other gangster keeps in his house! 
ana		If you leave now, there's a chance Frank might not kill you -
ana		I'm sorry.
richie		Open it.
richie		The warrant permits me to search the plane and its cargo.
army captain		But you don't have my permission.
richie		I don't need it.
us attorney		That's enough.
us attorney		That was a military transport plane. If there was heroin on board then someone in the military would have to be involved. Which means that even as it fights a war that's claimed 50,000 Americans lives, the military is smuggling narcotics.
us attorney		That's how these events are being interpreted by General Easton in that call to me. That someone employed by the this office believes the United States Army is in the drug trafficking business - and is trying to prove it by desecrating the remains of young men who've given their lives in the defence of democracy.
richie		There are drugs on that plane -
us attorney		Shut the fuck up.
us attorney		Is it any wonder then, because of your actions, the entire federal narcotics program is now in jeopardy of being dismantled as completely and enthusiastic- ally as that fucking transport plane? That's what you've accomplished Mr. Roberts. Single-handedly.
richie		I had good information the target of my investigation was bringing dope in on that plane.
us attorney		And that target is?
richie		Frank Lucas.
us attorney		Who?  Who's Frank Lucas?  Who's he work for? Which family?
richie		He's not Italian. He's black.
us attorney		Is that supposed to be some kind of joke? You're this close to the end of your career in law enforcement, you're making jokes?
richie		I believe Frank Lucas is above the mafia in the dope business. I believe he buys direct from the source in Southeast Asia, cuts out all the middlemen, and uses US military planes and personnel to bring pure No. 4 heroin into United States.
us attorney		Does he. And how many arrests has he made in his so-called investigation?
richie		I was promised when I took this job, it was about real arrests.
us attorney		Does that mean `none?'
richie		I have cases against most of Frank's organization. Not him -
us attorney		 Frank's organization -
richie		That's right.
us attorney		No fucking nigger has accomplished what the American Mafia hasn't in a hundred years!
richie		Yeah, you'd know, sitting here, having never been on the  -
us attorney		Lou, get this fucking kike out of here -
toback		He was out of line, Richie.
frank		Ten million dollars means nothing to me. 
frank		This - is his death warrant.
frank		Is that where I'm going?
toback		Where is it?
toback		You know that it's there.     You're sure.
richie		Lou. We're ready to go in there knowing there's a good chance we won't all come out. That's what we're willing to do. All I'm asking you to do get me a warrant.
richie		We don't have a lot of time to fuck around -
jones		How long we gonna wait for it?
richie		It'll be here.
spearman		I got to talk to Teddy.
spearman		What the fuck is that? I got business with Teddy and it's none of your fuckin business except to knock on the fuckin door and get him.  As the guy stands, pumping the shotgun, Spearman yanks it hard against his throat like a garrote, forcing him to the floor. The shotgun explodes, showering plaster and pellets. Jones and Abruzzo are instantly all over the other guy as Richie swings the sledgehammer into the door -  335   INT. APARTMENT, THE PROJECTS - CONTINUOUS                      335  The door splinters - the room already in chaos - Teddy, panicked, runs for the bedroom - the detectives crash in yelling at the girls to get down - a shot from somewhere inside wings Abruzzo - Jones and Spearman firing back - crawling across the floor like an infantrymen -  Richie comes into the darkened bedroom leading with his pistol. But Teddy's gone. He sees a tapestry of a tiger on a wall. Pulls at it, finds a big hole knocked into another dark apartment, climbs through, sees an open door -  336   INT. THE PROJECTS BUILDING - CONTINUOUS                        336  As Richie rushes out to the hallway he can hear footfalls echoing in the stairwell. He starts down, taking the stairs five at a time, chases Teddy down two flights -  Teddy yanks open a door, runs down a corridor, bangs into an apartment. Richie reaches the apartment just as Teddy is goes out onto an exterior balcony - Richie continues along the interior corridor, running parallel to Teddy on the balcony, who trips over some debris and garbage, looking over his shoulder for Richie -  Richie cuts through another apartment to head him off, but the door to the balcony is nailed shut. So are the windows. Richie looks around, grabs a small portable television and, just as Teddy runs past, hurls it through a window at him, hitting him in the head.  He falls hard, dazed. Richie hurries through the broken window. Teddy comes to and fights back, until Richie breaks his femur with his bare hands. Teddy howls in excruciating pain -  337   INT/EXT. DRY CLEANERS - DAY                                    337  Police cars outside.    Eugene Lucas is cuffed and led away. 
richie		What kind of trees are these?
frank		You think you got Frank Lucas.      You got nothing.
frank		Here he is, let me talk to him alone. 
frank		I just heard something. I said it couldn't be true. You didn't really turn in a million dollars you found in the trunk of a car, did you?
frank		Want me to tell you what happened to it? It ended up in cops' pockets.
richie		Maybe.
frank		Maybe? No. It did. All you did was give it to them for nothing in return. Not nothing: You got their contempt.
frank		Why'd you do that? What're you trying to prove, you're better than them? You're not better than them. You are them.
richie		I don't have the time or interest to listen to  -
frank		You did it because it was right. That's all. Why's that hard to say? The question is would you do it again? That was a long time ago. It'd be very easy to find out. Tell me you want to find out, tell me the address, and a car will be there, the trunk loaded.
richie		No, thanks.
frank		Who the fuck are you to say no to that? You think that impresses me?
frank		Let me ask you something. You think by putting me in jail, you're going to stop even one junkie from dying? Because you won't. If it isn't me, it'll be someone else. With me or without me, nothing's going to change.
richie		Then that's the way it is.
frank		You have any sort of case? Or just that idiot drives for my brother. Is he your case? Because if it's just him and the powder, it's not enough.
richie		Then you got nothing to worry about.
frank		My brothers won't talk to you. My cousins. None of my family. No one but that mother fucking driver. RICHIE I got more than that. I got a line of people wanting to testify that stretches out the door and around the block.
frank		Bullshit.
richie		Is it? Tony the Bug.     Benny Two-Socks. Carmine Camanetti.
frank		Who the fuck are they? I don't know them and they don't know me.
richie		They sell dope for the Mazzano crime family. Which you all but put out of business.
frank		This is who you're going to put on the stand? Guys who don't know me? Who got nothing to do with me?
richie		They have everything to do with you. And the only thing they hate more than you is what you represent.
frank		I don't represent nothing.
richie		You don't? Black businessman like you? Of course you do. But once you're gone, things can return to normal.
frank		Look at me. You looking? Can you tell by looking it would mean nothing to me if tomorrow you turned up dead?
richie		Get in line. That one stretches around the block, too.
frank		What can we do?
richie		You know what you have to do.
richie		They're not. Not the ones in business with you. They're not my kind any more than the Italians are yours.
frank		What can you promise me?
richie		I can promise you if you lie to me about one name, you'll never get out of prison. Lie about one dollar in one offshore account, you'll never get out. You can live rich in jail the rest of your life, or poor outside it, that's what I can promise.
frank		You know, I don't care if the feds take all my buildings, my stocks, my off-shore accounts. They can take it all, I don't care - use it to build battleships, paint bridges, whatever the fuck they want. Fight another war. But those other motherfuckers - the cops - put my money in their pockets. Millions.
richie		I believe it.
richie		I want to know everyone   you've met for the last twenty years.    Everyone you sold to. Every cop you ever    paid off. Every one who ever stole from   you. Every one you remember.
frank		Oh, I remember them all.   That's not the problem.
richie		What is?
frank		The jail's aren't big enough.
frank		You go up here. Your "special."
frank		Frederick Douglass Boulevard? What was wrong with just plain 8th Avenue?
frank		I used to sit here with Ana in my old car. She hated it. Now I don't even have a car. Or her.
frank		Just do what?
richie		What?
frank		The fuck is that? Just do what?
richie		Sneakers.   Expensive ones.
frank		Who the fuck would buy those?
richie		Your brothers know you're out? FRANK I haven't talked to them in years. It's better that way. For them. I don't know where they are. Went back to Greensboro when they got out, I guess.
frank		What am I going to do now, be a janitor? What do I know how to do? How am I going to live?
richie		I told you I wouldn't let you starve.
frank		You told me but you can barely take care of yourself. 
frank		I won't.   I'm just saying I could.
frank		Thanks for the clothes.
richie		You're welcome.
frank		Uh-oh. Look out. Here come the gangsters.
gangsta 2		What.
gangsta 1		Nothing.
frank		Every idiot gets to be young once.
frank		Let's get out of here.
****Dialogues from script :american_graffiti.txt****

wolfman		Awwrigght, baay-haay-baay! I got a oldie for ya--gonna knock ya right on de flowa--baay-haay-hee-baay!
terry		Hey, whadaya say? Curt? Last night in town, you guys gonna have a little bash before you leave?
steve		The Moose have been lookin' for you all day, man.
curt		 Oh great...
terry		Whadaya got, whadaya got? Wow--two thousand dollars. Two thousand doll-- !!
steve		Mr. Jenning couldn't find you, so he gave it to me to give to you. He said he's sorry it's so late, but it's the first scholarship the Moose Lodge has given out. Oh yeah, he says they're all very proud of you.
curt		Well... ah... why don't you hold onto it for a while?
steve		What's with you? It's yours! Take it! I don't want it.
terry		I'll take it.
curt		Steve... Ah, I think we'd better have a talk. I've gotten-
steve		Your sister calls. I'll talk to you later.
curt		Now, Steve! Let her wait.
steve		Okay, make it short and sweet.
curt		Yeah, well... Listen...  I... I don't think I'm going tomorrow.
steve		What! Come on, what are you talking about?
curt		I don't know. I was thinking I might wait for a year... go to city--
steve		You chicken fink.
curt		Wait, let me explain--
steve		You can't back out now! After all we went through to get accepted. We're finally getting out of this turkey town and now you want to crawl back into your cell--look, I gotta talk to Laurie.  Now take it. We're leaving in the morning. Okay?
steve		You wanna end up like John? You can't stay seventeen forever.
curt		I just want some time to think. What's the rush? I'll go next year.
steve		We'll talk later.
radio		 "Here comes the Wolfman--Wolfman Jack!"
girl		Hi John!
john		Not too good, huh?
curt		Why is it every girl that comes around here is ugly? Or has a boyfriend? Where is the dazzling beauty I've been searching for all my life?
john		I know what you mean. The pickin's are really gettin' slim. The whole strip is shrinking. Ah, you know, I remember about five years ago, take you a couple of hours and a tank full of gas just to make one circuit. It was really somethin.'
curt		Hey, John. Someone new in town.
john		Ahhh.
curt		You gonna go after him?
john		Hey, listen, Professor, if he can't find me, then he ain't worth racin', right?
curt		The big shot!
budda		A cherry-vanilla coke and a chocolate mountain. Anything else you want, Steve?  If there is you let me know now. Just honk and I'm yours.
budda		One fries--grab it before I drop it.
steve		Where was I?
laurie		Um, how you thought high school romances were goofy and we started going together just because you thought I was kinda cute and funny, but then you suddenly realized you were in love with me, it was serious... and ah... oh, you were leadin' up to somethin' kinda big.
steve		You make it sound like I'm giving dictation. Well, seriously, what I meant was, that ah... since we do care for each other so much, and since we should really consider ourselves as adults. Now, I, ah... could I have a couple of those fries?
steve		Ah, where was I?
laurie		..."consider ourselves adults"...
steve		Right... right... anyway, I thought maybe, before I leave, we could ah... agree that... that seeing other people while I'm away can't possibly hurt, you know?
laurie		You mean dating other people?
steve		I think it would strengthen our relationship. Then we'd know for sure that we're really in love. Not that there's any doubt.
laurie		I think you're right. I mean, we're not kids anymore, and it's silly to think that when we're three thousand miles apart we shouldn't be able to see other people and go out.
steve		Laurie, now, listen, I didn't ask for that back. I think that...
laurie		I know. I just sort of think it's juvenile now. I'll keep it at home. It's less conspicuous there.
steve		You don't want to wear it?
laurie		I didn't say that. I understand and I'm not upset. I mean, I can't expect you to be a monk or something while you're away.
terry		...and I have a really sharp record collection. I even have "Pledging My Love" by Johnny Ace. Anyway, how can you love Nelson when he's going out with Marilyn Gator. Since he dumped on you maybe we could--
budda		He didn't dump on me, you little dip. Hi, Steve!
terry		She's a little conceited--just playing hard to get.
steve		Listen, I came over here to talk to you about--
terry		Any time, buddy. I'm your man. Nothing I like better than chewing the rug with a pal. You talk, I'll listen. I'm all ears. Shoot.
steve		Shut up.
terry		Sure.
steve		Terry, I'm going to let you take care of my car while we're away--at least until Christmas. I'm afraid if I leave it with my--
steve		What's wrong?
curt		Hey, sis--what's wrong?
laurie		Nothing.
steve		Now listen, only 30 weight Castrol- R. I've written the tire pressure and stuff on a pad in the glove compartment. Are you listening?
curt		What's wrong, he's crying!
terry		I can't... believe... it.  This is a superfine machine. This may even be better than Daryl Starbird's superfleck moonbird. It is better than Daryl Starbird's.
terry		Budda, how would you like to go to the drive-in movies with me?
budda		You've got to be kidding!
terry		Would I kid you about a thing like that? I want you to know that something has happened to me tonight that is going to change everything. I've got a new...
terry		Car!! All right, who's the wise-- 
john		Hey, did she do that to you?
steve		Let's get going. It seems like we've spent most of our lives in this parking lot.
terry		Hey, Curt, let's bomb around, I wanna try out my new wheels!
curt		I'd like to, Toad, but I'm going with Steve and Laurie to the hop. I'd just slow you down anyway.
terry		Yeah, tonight things are going to be different.
john		Hey, wait a minute, you're goin' to the Hop? The Freshman Hop?
curt		Yeah.
john		Oh, come on, man. That place is for kids. You two just got your ass out of there. Don't go back now.
curt		You ain't got no emotions?
terry		We're gonna remember all of the good times, is what we're gonna do.
john		Yeah, well, go.
curt		Why don't you come with us?
john		Bullshit, man!
curt		Come on. For old time's sake.
john		Yeah, yeah... Well, listen. You go. Go ahead, Curtsy, baby. You go on over there and you remember all the good times you won't be having. I ain't goin' off to some goddamned fancy college. I'm stayin' right here. Havin' fun, as usual.
terry		Jesus, Milner, you're in a great mood tonight.
curt		What's the matter John? Did I say somethin' wrong? I'm sorry.
john		Ah, man, it's nothin'.
curt		Well, we'll see you later, okay?
john		Right.
curt		We'll all do somethin' together. You know, before Steve leaves.
john		Okay, wait a minute. Now, you're not going?
curt		I don't know.
man		This is Joe... in Little Rock, way down in the Valley.
wolfman		You callin' from Little Rock, California?
man		Long distance.
wolfman		My, my, my... listen, man, what kind of entertainment you got in that town?
man		All we got is you.
john		Hey, Zudo.
pazudo		Hey, Milner.
john		Hey, man, what happened to your flathead?
pazudo		Huh?
john		What happened to your flathead?
pazudo		Ah, your mother!
john		What?
pazudo		Your mother. Hey, we been talkin' about you.
john		Yeah?
pazudo		Yeah. There's a very wicked '55 Chevy lookin' for you.
john		Yeah, I know.
pazudo		Watch out for the cop that's in Jerry's Cherry.
john		Yeah. All right, thanks.
guy		Hey, Toad.
guy		 Geez, what a waste of machinery.
girl		Hey, kid.
wolfman		Ah, yeah, listen, you got any more of those secret agent spy-scopes?
man		Hit parade on the stethoscope?
wolfman		No. No, the secret agent spy-scope, man. That pulls in the moon, the sky and the planets... and the satellites and the little bitty space men.
man		You must have the wrong number, partner.
wolfman		'Bye.
curt		What?
curt		 What? What?!!!
steve		We didn't say anything.
curt		Quick! Hang a right!
steve		What? Why?
curt		Cut over to G Street, I've just seen a vision! She was a goddess. You've got to catch her!
steve		I didn't see anything.
laurie		We're not going to spend the night chasing girls for you.
curt		I'm telling you, this was the most perfect, dazzling creature I've ever seen.
steve		She's gone. Forget it.
curt		She spoke to me. She spoke to me, right through the window. I think she said, "I love you."
curt		That means nothing to you people? You have no romance, no soul? She-- someone wants me. Someone roaming the streets wants me! Will you turn the corner?
john		Oh, oh. Later.
guy		Alligator.
john		Hey, you're new around here. Where're you from?
first girl		Turlock.
john		Turlock? You know a guy named Frank Bartlett?
first girl		No. Does he go to Turlock High?
john		Well, he used to. He goes to J.C. now.
first girl		Do you go to J.C.?
john		Yeah, sure.
first girl		Oh, wow! Do you know Guy Phillips?
john		Yeah, sure. I got him in a class.
first girl		He's so boss.
john		How would you like to ride around with me for awhile?
first girl		I'm sorry, I can't. I'm going steady.
john		Ah, come on!
first girl		I just can't.
john		You're just ridin' around with a bunch of girls. Hey, how about somebody else in there? Anybody else want to go for a ride?
john		Aw, come on... I got plenty of room. It's dangerous to have that many people in a car. Cops see ya, you're had. You got nothing to fear, I'm as harmless as a baby kitten.
carol		I'll go. I'll go.
first girl		Judy's sister wants to ride with you. Is that all right?
john		 Yeah, sure, Judy--her sister--her mother--anybody. I'll take 'em all. Listen, we'll go up and stop at that light. It'll turn red by the time we get there. All right?
john		You ever get tired of going steady with somebody that ain't around--I'm up for grabs.
john		So, you're Judy's little sister.
john		Ah, shit,--how old are you?
carol		Old enough. How old are you?
john		I'm too old for you.
carol		You can't be that old.
john		Listen, listen. I think you better go back and sit with your sister. Hey, ah... where are they, anyway? They comin' back or somethin'? This is a joke, right? This better be a joke, 'cause I'm not drivin' you around.
carol		But you asked me. What's the matter? Am I too ugly?  Judy doesn't want me with her and now you don't want me with you. Nobody wants me... even my mother and father hate me. Everybody hates me.
john		No they don't. I mean, I don't know, maybe they do. But I don't. It's just that you're a little young for me.
carol		I am not! If you throw me out I'll scream.
john		OK, OK, just stay cool. There's no need to scream. We'll think of something.  It shouldn't take too long to find your sister again.
john		Oh, shit! Hey, get down!
john		Hey, cool...
carol		Hey, is this what they call copping a feel?
john		NO! Uh uh. N-O. Don't even say that. Jesus...
carol		What's your name?
john		Mud, if anybody sees you.
terry		What you got in there, kid?
kid		More than you can handle.
older man		Excuse me, but I think we've had an accident.
terry		Well, goddamnit, I won't report you this time, but next time just watch it, will ya?
salesman		I'll give you $525 for her on a practically new Corvette... and on top of this, I'm going to know 10% off the low price of this beautiful Vette. I'm talking about only $98 down and $98 a month. Now, how am I able to make you this incredible offer? I'll tell you! I'm forced to move all the sporty cars off the lot as quickly as I can. Boss's orders. He doesn't want 'em. I think it's a mistake, but what can I do?
peg		Hey, why are you so depressed? You'll forget him in a week. Listen, after you're elected senior queen you'll have so many boys after your bod--
laurie		I don't want to go out with anybody else.
peg		Laurie, I know it's a drag but you can't--remember what happened to Evelyn Chelnick? When Mike went to the Marines? She had a nervous breakdown and was acting so wacky she got run over by a bus.
laurie		I just wish I could go with him or something.
peg		Laurie, jeez... Come on.
steve		What's that?
eddie		What's what?
steve		Hey, zit make-up!  Wait till I tell--hey, everybody, Eddie--
eddie		Come on, Steve--don't. Just cool it.
steve		 Let me see some of that stuff.
eddie		You leave tomorrow?
eddie		You and Laurie engaged yet?
steve		No, but we got it worked out. We're still going together but we can date other people.
eddie		And screw around--I hear college girls really give out.
steve		Come on.
laurie		Come on what?
steve		Let's dance.
laurie		No thanks.
steve		Laurie, I want to dance.
laurie		Who's stopping you?
steve		 Laurie, I thought since this was our last night together for 3 months, you might want to dance with me.
laurie		How sentimental. You'll be back at Christmas.
steve		I want to dance now, not at Christmas.
laurie		Get your cooties off me--
laurie		Go ahead, slug me, scar my face. I wouldn't dance with you if you were the last guy left in this gym.
eddie		Uh, Peg, I think we should dance.
peg		No, this is getting good.
laurie		I'll dance with you, Eddie. You don't mind, do you, Peggy?
peg		Joe College strikes out.
girl		You won't dance? Come on.
girls		Aahhh.
curt		 Kids... Want one?
curt		No, not yet.  I have no matches.
curt		Blotto.
curt		 Cute. Very cute. Where'd you go again?
curt		And only stayed a semester.
curt		Why?
curt		Well, you know I might find I'm not the competitive type myself.
curt		Well, I'm not really sure that I'm going.
jane		I mean--Mr. Wolfe. Can I speak with you a minute.  Hi, Curt.
curt		Jane...
curt		Yeah... I'll see you. Thanks a lot.
carol		So the next night we found out where they parked and went out with ammunition.
john		Don't you have homework or something to do?
carol		No sweat--my mother does it. Anyway, he thought he was had. He started the car and couldn't see through the windshield--and zoomed straight into the canal--it was a riot.
carol		I still got some, so don't try anything.
john		Hey, watch it will ya! Jesus Christ, thanks a lot.  Hey, drivin' is a serious business. I ain't havin' no accidents because of you.
john		 Come on, don't give me any grief. I'm warning ya.
carol		Spare me, killer.
carol		Why'd you do that?
john		I don't like that surfing shit. Rock 'n Roll's been going downhill ever since Buddy Holly died.
carol		Don't you think the Beach Boys are boss!
john		You would, you grungy little twerp.
carol		Grungy? You big weenie, if I had a boyfriend he'd pound you.
john		 Sure--ah, shit, Holstein!
carol		Good, a cop--I'm going to tell him you tried to rape me.
john		Oh, no--No. Hey--
carol		It's past my curfew. I'm going to tell him how old I am, my parents don't know I'm out and you tried to rape me. Boy, are you up a creek.
john		Hey--ah, really--don't say anything.
carol		If you say "I was a dirty bird. Carol's not grungy, she's bitchin'."
carol		Say it--I'll tell him.
john		 I was a dirty bird, Carol's not grungy, she's bitchin.'
carol		Okay--I'll think about it.
holstein		Where you going, Milner?
john		I'm going home--sir.
holstein		Where you been, Milner?
john		Ah--at the movies--sir.
holstein		Milner, you weren't around the 12th and G streets at about 8:30, were you?
john		No, I wa at the movies--like I said-- sir.
holstein		Uh-huh. Milner, the reason I stopped you was because the light on your license plate is out.  I'm gonna have to cite you for that. And Milner, the front end of this... this... this thing you're driving looks a little low.
john		Oh, no sir. It's twelve and a half inches. Regulation size. Now, it's been checked several times. You can check it if you like, sir.
holstein		Look, Milner.
john		Yes, sir.
holstein		You can't fool with the law.
john		Yes, sir.
holstein		We know that was you tonight. We have an excellent description of this car. I could run you in right now and I could make it stick. But I'm not gonna do that, Milner, you know why?
holstein		Because I want to catch you in the act. And when I do, I'm gonna nail you, but good. Happy Birthday, Milner.
john		Thank you--asshole.
carol		 You're a regular J.D.
john		Here, file that under C.S. over there.
carol		C.S.? What's that stand for?
john		Chicken shit--that's what it is.
carol		Oh...
girlfriend		Ain't he neat?
falfa		Hey, you know a guy around here with a piss yellow deuce coupe--supposed to be hot stuff?
terry		You mean John Milner?
terry		Hey, nobody can beat him, man. He's got the fastest--
falfa		I ain't nobody, dork. Right?
terry		Right...
falfa		Hey, you see this Milner, you tell him I'm lookin' for him, huh? Tell him I aim to blow his ass right off the road.
girlfriend		 Ain't he neat?
terry		What a babe... what a bitchin' babe... And Wolfman Baby, she's all mine.
terry		Okay, honey, here I come--James Dean lives!
terry		Stay cool, honey--don't let those creeps bug you. Wolfman, please don't let those creeps bug her... please.
terry		Hi!  Hello... buenos noches? Need a lift? Nice night for a walk? Do you know John Milner? Curt Henderson? Sure you wouldn't like a ride somewhere? Did anyone ever tell you that you look just like Connie Stevens?
terry		You do! I mean it! Just like Connie Stevens. I met her once.
debbie		For real?
terry		Yeah. At a Dick Clark road show.
debbie		You really think I look like her?
terry		No shit--excuse me, I mean I'm not just feeding you a line. You look like Connie Stevens. What's your name?
debbie		Debbie. I always though I looked like Sandra Dee.
terry		Oh yeah--well, you look a lot like her too.
debbie		This your car?
terry		Yeah. I'm Terry the--they call me Terry the Tiger.
debbie		It's really tough looking.
terry		What school do you go to?
debbie		Dewey--can it lay rubber?
terry		Oh yeah, it's got a 327 Chevy mill with six Strombergs.
debbie		Wow--bitchin' tuck and roll. I just love the feel of tuck and roll upholstery.
terry		You do?
debbie		Yeah.
terry		Well, come on in--I'll let you feel it. I mean, you can touch it if you want--  I mean the upholstery, you know.
debbie		Okay.
debbie		Peel out.
terry		What?
debbie		Peel out. I love it when guys peel out.
girl		--a great band and they came all the way from Stockton. Let's hear it.
girl		And we want to thank Darby Langdon, who did all these neat decorations.
laurie		I don't care if you leave this second.
girl		 Now the next dance is gonna be a snowball and leading it off is last year's class president Steven Bolander-- and this year's head cheerleader, Laurie Henderson.
steve		What's wrong with you! You're acting like a snotty--
laurie		Oh God, come on.
steve		Come on what?
laurie		 Oh, Steven--please, everybody's watching. Smile or something.
laurie		You think I care if you go off. You think I'm going to crack up or something. Are you conceited!
steve		Quit--quit pinching--I don't know why I ever started taking you out in the first place.
laurie		You take me out? When we first met you didn't have enough sense to take the garbage out... I asked you out, remember?
steve		What do you mean, you asked me out!
laurie		Backwards Day--remember? If I had waited for you to ask me--even after that you didn't call me for two weeks.
steve		I was busy.
laurie		You were scared. Dave Oboler told me. Then when you did ask me out you didn't kiss me for three dates.
steve		Well--I was--
laurie		Scared--Jim Kaylor told me. I even asked my father why you hadn't kissed me.
steve		Your father--great!
laurie		He said he thought you were bright and you'd probably think of kissing me after a while.
laurie		You didn't, of course. I had to. Remember that picnic?
steve		Out at the canyon?
laurie		Oh boy! You can't remember anything-- the first one, up at the lake. That was the first time you kissed me--I practically had to throw myself at you.
steve		 I remember.
steve		What's wrong?
laurie		Go to hell.
wendy		What are you doin', stealing hub caps?
curt		Well--hey, Wendy.
wendy		How've you been?
curt		Fine. Great. How've you been?
wendy		I'm coming--wait a sec.  She's got her car. Hey, I thought you were going away to school.
curt		Ah, maybe... maybe.
wendy		Same old Curt. All the time we were going together you never knew what you were doing... well, anyway, I gotta go.
curt		Hey, Wendy--where are you going?
wendy		Nowhere.
curt		 Well, you mind if I come along?
wendy		 Okay.
curt		Okay.
steve		Hey, Kroot!
steve		Why don't you go kiss a duck.
kroot		What? What did you say?
steve		I said go kiss a duck, marblehead.
steve		 I graduated last semester.
steve		 Get your shoes. Let's go before we get thrown out.
man		This is Weird Willard.
wolfman		Hold on a minute, let me get my pants off... you understand?
steve		Why don't we go to the canal?
laurie		 What for?
steve		Listen, I can get tough with you too, you know.
laurie		Yeah, hard tough.
terry		I go to Dewey too, ya know.
debbie		I never seen ya.
terry		I bug out a lot. When I graduate, I'm going to join the Marines.
debbie		They got the best uniforms. But what if there's a war?
terry		With the bomb, who's going to start it? We'd all blow up together. Anyway, I'd rather be at the front. I'm like that--rather be where the action is, you know. Once I got in a fight with--
debbie		I love Eddie Burns.
terry		Eddie Burns--oh, yeah, Eddie Burns. I met him once, too.
debbie		You really think I look like Connie Stevens? I like her--Tuesday Weld is too much of a beatnik, don't you think?
terry		Yeah, beatniks are losers.
debbie		Who do you like? I mean, singers and stuff.
terry		Ah hell--I like most of the people you like.
debbie		 That's nice--we got a lot in common.
debbie		You know what I'd like more than anything in the world right now?
debbie		I'd love a double Chubby Chuck. Isn't that what you'd like more than anything right now?
terry		 Sure...
terry		A double Chubby Chuck, a Mexicali Chili Barb, two orders of French fries--
debbie		And cherry cokes.
intercom		Ark, wark, dork.
terry		 Now wait a minute. What? Huh?
intercom		Ark, wark, dork.
terry		Yeah, right. Cool.
vic		Hey, Deb. How's my soft baby?
debbie		Beat it, Vic. I'm not your baby.
vic		Oh, come on, honey. So I never called you back. I've been, you know, busy...
debbie		Three weeks... besides, it only took one night for me to realize that if brains were dynamite, you couldn't blow your nose.
vic		Look who's talking. Who's the wimp you're hanging out with now? Einstein?
debbie		Tiger happens to be very intelligent. Unlike you. I know every thing your dirty little mind is thinking...  ...it shows...
terry		Hey, now--  I mean, hey now, buddy, the lady obviously doesn't--
vic		Look, creep, you want a knuckle sandwich?
terry		Ah, no thanks, I'm waiting for a double Chubby--Chuck...
vic		Then shut your smart ass mouth! I'll call ya, Deb, some night when I'm hard up.
debbie		I won't be home.
terry		You seem to, ah--know a lot of weird guys.
debbie		That sex fiend is not a friend of mine; he's just horny. That's why I like you, you're different.
terry		I am? You really think I'm intelligent?
debbie		Yeah. And I'll bet you're smart enough to get us some brew.
terry		Brew?
debbie		Yeah.
terry		Brew... oh--yeah... oh, sure...  Yes! Liquor! This place is too crowded anyway.
car hop		What about your double Chubby Chuck, mexicali-chili-barb and  --two cherry cokes, sir?
curt		There--don't you see it? Speed up, you're losing her--
bobbie		Quit shouting in my ear!
curt		Cut around him, cut around him.
curt		There, hang a right--over there!
curt		You lost her!
wendy		What's wrong with you? You know Bobbie gets nose bleeds when she's upset.
bobbie		I do not! You shut up!
curt		Lost her again. Ah, Wendy, my old lover, come back here and console me.
wendy		Eat your heart out. Who was she anyway?
curt		I don't know, but I'm going to find out.
bobbie		I know her!
curt		Okay, come on, who is she?
bobbie		You know Mr. Beeman? He owns Hepcat Jewelers.
curt		Yeah.
bobbie		Well, she's his wife.
curt		But she was young and beautiful, and cruising 10th Street. You're thinking of someone else.
wendy		Mr. Beeman's not so old.
curt		What cruel fate keeps me from my true love? How am I ever going to meet her?
wendy		 Did you know that my ex is going to become a presidential aide? It's supposed to be a secret, but his big ambition in life is to shake hands with President Kennedy. How are you going to accomplish that at J.C.?
curt		Maybe I've grown up. Maybe I've changed my mind.
wendy		Maybe you don't think you can do it!
curt		Maybe you should shut up!
wendy		Maybe I will... and maybe I won't.
curt		Why don't you move your bod into aft chamber, where we might discuss this in private.
bobbie		 Thanks a lot.
curt		Come on, Wendy? She doesn't say anything. They pull up to a stoplight. Wendy looks at the red stoplight and then abruptly gets out of the car and jumps in the back.
wendy		Well, slide over, I'm not sitting on your lap.
curt		To the Opera, James.
bobbie		Drop dead.
curt		Unless you want to go to Gallo Dam and have an orgy.
wendy		You wish.
wendy		I've been silly. I'm glad you're going to stay. Maybe we'll have some classes together.
curt		Maybe.
bobbie		 Look, there's Kip Pullman! He's so neat.
bobbie		Do you know Kip?
curt		Huh? Yeah, I know him.
bobbie		Talk to him when we go by.
curt		What do you want me to say?
bobbie		Anything... I just want to meet him.
curt		Kip, baby, what's up?
kip		Henderson, long time no see. Whadaya been doing?
curt		Not much, just wanted to let you know that Bobbie here is hopelessly in love with you and trembles at the sight of your rippling biceps...
bobbie		You creep, fink, son-of-a-bitch--
curt		Help, wait! Joke--Joke--Bobbie, remember your nose bleeds!
bobbie		Get out--get out of my car--I hate you!
curt		Excuse me--ouch--Wendy--I got to go now.
wendy		Curt, I hope I see you at registration. Call me if you want. It was nice seeing you again.
curt		See ya.
curt		Oh shit--there!! Wait!
carol		I'm so thirsty, I could die. Just a little 10 cent coke to wet my whistle. It won't take a minute, I can drink it in the--
john		Why don't you just get out and get one then! So long, goodbye, hasta lumbago.
john		All right, one coke and then home.
carol		Isn't it great, the way I can cry whenever I want. A lot of people can't do that, but Vicki showed me how. I bet you can't cry.
john		Don't count on it. I may surprise you any minute now.
john		 One ten cent coke. Is ice extra? All right, ice.
carol		Thanks for nothing.
carol		Oh rats, I though some of my friends might be here.
john		Probably a couple of weeks past their bedtime.
carol		Wait, there's Dee Dee. I hope she sees me.
john		Oh Shit, Dee Dee!
al		Hiya, John. Say, do you think if I brought my Mopar by the shop Monday you could spot weld the bumper bracket?
john		Have to be before noon.
al		Sure. Hey, have you met Linda?
john		No. Hi--ahh, this is my, ahh, cousin, Carol. I'm kinda babysitting tonight.
carol		Babysitting!!
john		Jesus--watch it, will yuh?  Been hittin' me all night. Kids will be kids, you know.
john		Watch out--damn it! Look what--why don't you grow up!  We don't get along too well. It's been like this--
carol		You spastic creep!
john		We don't get along too well. You know what cousins are like.
al		Yeah... well, I'll see ya on Monday before noon.
carol		Hi cousin, how's your bod?
debbie		Do you have an ID?
terry		No... hey, but no sweat. What'll it be? Beer, little wine?
debbie		If you could get some Old Harper, I'd give you a French kiss.
terry		Old Harper, rrright! He gives her an OK sign with his fingers and goes over to the store. He starts to enter, then stops and thinks. He sees a man in a business suit approaching, and smiles.
terry		Excuse me, sir, while you're in there-- I mean, since you're going in anyway, I wonder if--
man		Yes, son?
terry		Could you--sir--could you give me the time?
man		 Why sure, it's a quarter to twelve.
terry		Great. Quarter to twelve. Thanks a lot.
terry		Pardon me, sir, but I lost my I.D. in--in a flood and I'd like to get some Old Harper, hard stuff. Would you mind buying a bottle for me?
bum		Why certainly, I lost my wife, too-- her name wasn't Idy, though, and it wasn't in a flood--but I know what ya--
terry		Thanks, here's enough for a pint.
terry		Hi. Still quarter to twelve.
man		Right-o. Night.
terry		Night.
terry		 Hey, no. Not wine. Ssss--hey!
terry		 Hi there--ah, say--was there an old man in here a minute ago?
owner		Yeah. He went out the back.
owner		You want something?
terry		Yeah--ah--let me have a Three Musketeers, ah, and a ball point pen ther, a comp, a pint of Old Harper, couple of flashlight batteries and some of this beef jerky.
owner		Okay, got an I.D. for the liquor?
terry		A what? Oh, sure--  Oh nuts, I left it--I left it in the car.
owner		Sorry, you'll have to get it before--
terry		Well, I can't. I also ah, forgot the car.
debbie		Hey, did ya get it? Ya get it, ya get it?
debbie		You got it. You got it!
debbie		You didn't get it. Why didn't you get it?
terry		Ah, well, I needed some things and I thought as long as I was in there-- look, Debbie, can you loan me a dollar?
debbie		What? Are you for real? Come on. Girls don't pay. Guys pay.
terry		Yeah, well, see--I've only got a fifty and he doesn't have change.
debbie		Well, I can't believe this... I really cannot believe this. Here.
terry		Hi--excuse me. I was wondering--could you, ah--
guy		Buy you a bottle of booze. Yeah, I know. You lost your I.D. What kind do you want?
terry		 Gee, that's terrific. Ah, just some ah--Old Harper.
john		That's Freddy Benson's Vette... he got his head on with some drunk. Never had a chance. Damn good driver, too. What a waste when somebody gets it and it ain't even their fault.
carol		Needs a paint job, that's for sure.
john		That Vette over there. Walt Hawkins, a real ding-a-ling. Wrapped it around a fig tree out on Mesa Vista with five kids in it. Draggin' with five kids in the car, how dumb can you get? All the ding-a-lings get it sooner or later. Maybe that's why they invented cars. To get rid of the ding-a-lings. Tough when they take someone with them.
carol		You never had a wreck though--you told me.
john		I come pretty close a couple of times. Almost rolled once. So far I've been quick enough to stay out of here. The quick and the dead.
carol		I bet you're the fastest.
john		I've never been beaten--lot of punks have tried. See that '41 Ford there? Used to be the fastest wheels in the valley. I never got a chance to race old Earl. He got his in '55 in the hairiest crash ever happened around here. He was racing a '54 Chevy, bored and loaded, out on the old Oakdale Highway and every damn kid in town was out there. The Chevy lost its front wheel doing about 85. The idiot had torched the spindles to lower the front end and it snapped right off. He slammed bam into the Ford and then they both of them crashed into a row of cars and all those kids watchin! Jesus, eight kids killed including both drivers, looked like a battlefield. Board of Education was so impressed they filmed it. Show it now in Drivers Education, maybe you'll see it. Anyway, since then street racing's gone underground. No spectators, I mean. Too bad.
carol		I'd love to see you race.
john		Come on! None of that.
carol		Whadaya mean? I'm the one who's supposed to say that. Whadaya afraid of? I'll keep it above the waist.
john		Funny...  Who knows, in a few years--but not now, bunny rabbit.
carol		Bunny rabbit! Oh brother, you are such a drip.
john		Come on, open the door.
carol		If you say "Carol's not a bunny, she's a foxy little tail."
john		 Carol's not a rabbit, she's a foxy little tail.
carol		You say the cutest things.
joe		Whadaya doin', creep?
curt		Me?
joe		No, I'm talking to the other fifty creeps here. You know Gil Gonzales?
curt		Gil Gonzales... no.
joe		Don't know Gil... you oughta. You really should.
curt		Yeah... why?
joe		No reason... he's a friend of ours... and that's his car you're sitting on.
joe		Hey, where ya goin?
curt		 No place. Not going any place.
joe		Ya must be going someplace--I mean ya left here. Bring him over here, Ants, I want to show him something.
joe		Here--bend down, look here. See that? Right across there--see?
curt		I guess so--yeah.
joe		You scratched it, man. Where do you get off sitting on Gil's car, huh, man?
curt		I'm sorry. It's not much of a scratch. I don't think he'll even--
joe		It ain't the size that's in question here. It's the principle. Jeez, this is tough... what should we do with ya?
ants		Tie him to the car and drag him.
curt		That's funny  Hey, you guys know Toby Juarez? He's a Pharoah, isn't he?
joe		Toby Juarez. Yeah, sure we know Toby.
curt		He's a friend of mine.
joe		Sure, good old Toby. He's a friend of yours. That's cool... we all hate his guts.
curt		Oh--well, I don't know him that much anyway.
joe		We killed him last night.
ants		Tied him to a car and dragged him.
joe		This is going to take some thinking. You better come with us maybe.  Go riding with the Pharoahs...
curt		Well, I don't think I can--I gotta--
joe		I know just how ya feel.
carlos		Shotgun!
ants		No, I called it!
carlos		When?
ants		Before we picked you up.
carlos		You can't call it for the whole night, man. I got it now. Get in the back.
wolfman		Pardon me. Your name is Colette?
operator		Yes. Collect Call.
wolfman		Your name is Colette Call?
operator		Sir, this is the Operator.
wolfman		Are you French, Operator?
operator		This is a collect call for Wolfman Jack.
wolfman		I... I love you, Operator.
operator		Is this Wolfman Jack?
wolfman		Is Floyd there?
operator		It's for a Wolfman... Jack...
carol		I just love listening to the Wolfman. My Mom won't let me at home. Because he's a Negro, I think... anyway, he's terrific. Do you know that he just broadcasts from a plane that flies around in circles all the time? Do you think that's true?
wolfman		You mean Floyd? Hello, is this Floyd?
wolfman		No, it ain't honey--bye!
carlos		You tell her, Wolfman. He's my man. When I graduate, I'm gonna be a Wolfman. Hey, you know he broadcasts out of Mexico someplace?
joe		No, he don't. I seen the station right outside of town.
carlos		That's just a clearing station, man. So he can fool the cops. He blasts that thing all the way around the world. It's against the law, man.
ants		Ah, man--they'll never catch the Wolfman.
ants		Hey, man, who cut the cheese?
joe		He who smelt it, dealt it.  Hey, creep, scoot down. Sitting up like that, it wrecks the lines of the car, you know what I mean?
joe		There's that badass Chevy again. Look at he snatch he's got with him.
ants		Hey, man, he looks like a whimp.
curt		Probably is. Whimps get all the snatch.
carlos		Milner ain't gonna beat that. His time has come. He's getting old. He ain't as fast as he used to be.
john		You got two seconds to get your ass over in the corner.
carol		Don't worry, I won't rape you.
girl		You got a bitchin' car.
girl		In fact, we're gonna give you our special prize for having the neatest car around. You want me to give it to you?
john		If the prize is you, honey, I'm a ready Teddy.
girl		Yeah, well get bent turkey.
carol		All right, very funny. What a chop. Ha ha. Quit laughing!!
carol		Let's catch 'em at the light. Then you jump out and flatten their tires.
john		Hey, wait a--
carol		Just do what I say!
john		Yezz, bozz....
terry		Tootie fruiti all ruti... It's Super Cola!
terry		It's a... a little... strong, I think.
debbie		 It's the living end.
terry		Yeaah, I guess it wasn't mixed.
debbie		Wow, it's pretty tonight. It's a perfect night to go horseback riding-- I was going with a guy once who had a horse.
terry		Oh yeah? I used to have a couple of horses myself.
debbie		Really?
terry		I used them for hunting. I do a lot of hunting. Deer mostly, although I got a couple of bear last year. Yep, they were good ponies--hunting ponies. I had to train 'em special, you know.
debbie		Do you still have 'em? We could go for a ride.
terry		No, I had to sell 'em. To get these wheels... and a jeep. I also have a jeep pick-up, with four-wheel drive. It's got a gun rack. And I use that for hunting mostly.
debbie		Why do you kill little animals? I think that's terrible.
terry		Oh, well, yeah, I figure with bears, though, it's either me or them... You know, I think you're really neat.
debbie		Wait a second.
terry		Oh, jeez, I'm sorry. I don't know what got into me--I didn't mean to-- maybe it's the booze or something.
debbie		There--now.
debbie		Ow--you pinched me.
terry		I'm sorry.
debbie		Let me get my head over here--okay, now you get up--
terry		Ow--my leg, my leg. Ow, watch it!
debbie		Ummm, I just love tuck 'n roll upholstery.
terry		Geez, it's like Grand Central Station around here. Why don't we go someplace else.
debbie		Nah, come on. They won't come back.
terry		Wait a minute. I got a blanket in the back. Why don't we go over into the field?
debbie		All right. Okay.
wolfman		How old are you?
girl		I'm thirteen, how old are you?
wolfman		I'm only fourteen.
girl		Oh, boy, I love you, Wolfman.
singers		 "Wolfman Jack."
wolfman		Oh, now we gonna do the weather for all the valleys and the mountain tops. Gonna be hot... about 200 degrees in Merced, 400 degrees out in Fresno, and I know we're gonna have about 500 degrees up around the valley somewhere. You got the Wolfman Jack Show.
curt		Hey, terrific, I love miniature golf.
joe		I hate it.
curt		Well, I don't play that often really. Ah--what're we doing here then?
joe		We're outta gas.
curt		They don't sell gas here.
joe		No... but we're outta money, too. Come on, Carl.
curt		Curt.
joe		All right, men.
curt		Hey, hi. Mr. Gordon, what's up?
curt		These are my friends. We were just...
curt		Oh ah--no--no, I'm not--
curt		I mean, I'm not leaving until tomorrow.
hank		We are all proud of you, Curt. The Moose Scholarship couldn't have gone to a better boy. And if there's anything we can do, let us know.
joe		Hey, we're all done out here.
curt		Ah, he means, we're all done having loads of fun out here.
hank		Wonderful. You can have all the fun you want. This place is for fun.
curt		Yes. Yes, it is. Thank you. Thank you both.
hank		Before I say goodbye, Curt, I want to tell you I hope you'll be taking along with you a little piece of this place.
curt		I think I have.
hank		Good. Don't forget us.
curt		No, I won't forget you and you won't forget me.
hank		Good-bye and good luck.
curt		'Bye.
joe		It was nice to meet yuh.
curt		Right. What he said goes for me, too.
joe		Yeah, you just might make it as a Pharoah yet, boy.
hank		Some day he'll make a fine Moose.
debbie		What's wrong?
terry		I thought I heard something.
terry		Wait a minute!
debbie		What?
terry		The radio is gone... That means--the car is gone!
terry		Oh no!!! OH NO!!!
terry		Oh God--I'm sorry. But, why the car? You could have struck us with lightning or something--anything--- but not the car!
laurie		You know, it doesn't make sense to leave home to look for a home, to give up a life to find a new life, to say goodbye to friends you love just to find new friends.
steve		What? Say that again, I didn't--
laurie		That's what Curt said.
steve		Oh, figures.  You must've talked his ear off trying to get him to stay.
laurie		That's not true. I didn't say anything. Curt just said at dinner tonight he realized there was no big hurry. He thought he should take it easy for a while, go to J.C. and try to figure out what he wants to do with his life.
steve		That sounds logical.
laurie		You think so?
steve		Sure. I think Curt's probably right for Curt. Not for me though. Laurie, look at me. Now you know what I want out of life. And it's just not in this town.
laurie		I'm not going to the airport tomorrow.
laurie		Steve! Don't.
steve		 It's our last night together for three months... come on.
laurie		We've been through this before.
steve		I'm going to miss you so much. I need something to remember you by. You don't want me to forget you.
laurie		 No...
steve		What's wrong? You're just lying there.
laurie		Well go ahead, you want to.
steve		Not like that.
laurie		If you're not going to remember me for anything else, why don't you go ahead?
steve		You want it and you know it. Don't be so damn self-righteous with me. After those things you told me about watching your brother--
laurie		You're disgusting! Get out of my car! I told you never--
steve		I'm sorry.
laurie		Get out! It's not worth it. I don't care if you're leaving--now get out!
debbie		Anyway, the Goat Killer--
terry		Let's talk about something else.
debbie		--Whenever he strikes, he leaves a bloody goat's head near the victim. Isn't that creepy?
debbie		They thought he went up to Stockton, but two nights ago they found Carlie Johnson and Don White right here by the canal all hacked to pieces and--
terry		Who do you think'll take the regionals this--
debbie		--not only were there bloody goats' heads, but he had switched all the parts of their bodies around. You know putting her arms on him and his legs on--
terry		Wait a second. Did you hear...?
debbie		You think it's the Goat Killer?
terry		 No! I mean, no. Listen, I'll go for help, you stay here.
debbie		Come on, we'll hide in the field.
debbie		Maybe if it's the Goat Killer he'll get somebody and we'll see the whole thing.
terry		I don't want to see the whole thing. Especially if it's us he--oh, why me? I'm going to look lousy with your legs and a goat's head and--
debbie		Shhh--he's stopped. I can't see him very--I think he's coming this way.
terry		Well, as long as he's not--Debbie! Debbie!
terry		Who, me? Why me?
steve		Terry.
terry		Steve!
terry		Where'd you go, anyway?
debbie		Over there.
terry		Well, don't go off again. Come on, let's get out of here.
steve		What're you doing out here? Hey, where's my rod?
terry		 Um, oh, did I introduce you? This is Debbie. Debbie, this is Steve.
debbie		Hello.
steve		Hi.
debbie		Hi.
steve		Well, what about my car?
terry		Um... I'ts in the garage. I put it in the garage for safe keeping. I mean... I don't want to take any chances with it.
steve		Oh, great.
debbie		Yeah. Yeah. It's a good thing too. 'Cause somebody stole our car.
steve		Really? That's terrible. What kind was it?
terry		Gee, ah, where's Laurie, anyway?
steve		I guess we broke up.
terry		You broke up? Bull!
carol		It doesn't look like a gear shift knob.
john		Come on, will ya? Give it back to me.
carol		Well, go ahead, cream me. What's wrong, you're a tough guy. Break my arm, see if I care.
john		Forget it.
carol		I was just going to keep it for a little while. You're an ogre, just like my father. He won't let me play records, or stay out late, or anything.
john		 He ah--doesn't like you to stay out late?
carol		No--he's terrible. Once I was at a party that didn't end till late and he called the cops. Can you imagine? It was only a little after midnight and he had the whole police force--
john		Say, where do you live anyway?
carol		Over on Ramona, why?  Oh no. Uh uh. You thought I'd tell you where--not me, not old Carol. The night is young and I'm not hitting the rack until I get a little action.
carol		What do you keep lookin' at?  Who's that? You know him? He's following awful close.
john		Grab onto something.
falfa		 Sorry if I scared ya, man.
john		 Takes more than that to scare me.
falfa		Where ya been hiding? Didn't anyone tell ya I been looking for ya?
john		Hey, I can't keep tracka all the punks lookin' for me.
falfa		They say you're the fastest thing in the Valley. But that can't be your car, man. That must be your mama's car. Hell, I feel embarrassed just getting near ya.
john		Ya should, man--you're driving a field car.
falfa		Field car? What's a Field Car?
john		Field Cars drive through the fields, dropping cow shit all over the place to make the lettuce grow.
falfa		 That's pretty good. Hey, I like that paint job you got. What they call that--sorta a cross between Piss Yellow and Puke Green, ain't it?
john		Yeah, well, you're car's so ugly you must have to sneak up on the pumps to get a tank of gas.
falfa		Well, at least I don't have to move over to let a funeral go by, man.
carol		 Your car's uglier than I am.
carol		That didn't come out right...
falfa		Come on, boy, prove it. Let's go.
john		Look kid, why don't you go out and win a few races, then come back and see me.
carol		Oh, race him, you can beat him.
falfa		Hey, that's a tough lookin' girl you got with you, man. What're you doin'? Trying to pick up a few extra bucks babysitting?  Hey, Doll. Why don't you come on and ride with me--in about ten years?
john		Leave her out of this. This is just between you and me.
carol		Wow! He's really fast, isn't he?
john		Yeah. But he's stupid.
curt		Hey--any of you guys know a blonde in a white T-Bird?
joe		Yeah, I seen her, what about it?
curt		I was just wondering who she is.
joe		She's outta your price range, man. My brother's been with her and he clued me in.
curt		Price range? You mean she's a--
joe		Yeah, Thirty Dollar Sheri. Can you believe that? Thirty dollars.
curt		We must be thinking of different blondes.
carlos		Hey man, don't tell Joe what he thinks.
ants		Thirty dollars ain't much. I saw ten thousand once. My old man had it in a suitcase. They caught him the next morning though.
carlos		Fuzz ahead, watch it.
joe		Where?
carlos		Fuzz ahead, watch it.
joe		Where?
carlos		At Jerrie's Cherries. You can just barely see the fender.
ants		That's rotten, man. Hiding like that.
carlos		That's shitty.
joe		It's dishonest.
joe		We oughta do something. I got an idea. I got a good idea.
steve		I think I'm gonna go over to Burger City.
terry		Yeah. Yeah. Laurie's probably over there.
steve		You really think she's got me worried about where she is, don't you?
terry		Well...
steve		Let me tell you something. I couldn't care less. Want to come along?
debbie		Yeah, I do. I do.
terry		No.
steve		Make up your minds.
terry		No, thanks. U'mm. You know we got to report the car missing.
steve		All right. See yuh.
terry		Yeah. See yuh.
debbie		Why can't we go to Burger City?
terry		Burger City? Burger City!!? How can you think of hamburgers when somebody stole my car.
joe		Listen, ah--Carl, I--
curt		Curt.
joe		Curt.
joe		Despite you scratching Gil's car, I like you. And I know what you'd like more than anything right now. Like every guy in town, you got the same secret dream, right?
joe		Ya want to join the Pharoahs. Huh? You can admit it--you'd like to--but you never dreamed it could be possible, did you?
joe		Well, tonight, I'm goin' to give you your chance.
joe		Get down!
joe		Okay. Now you got it? I'm stayin' here. You're on your own.
curt		Wait a minute, wait a minute, Joe. What if he hears me?
joe		Shhh. Listen. Look at it this way: Now you got three choices. One, you chicken out. In that case, I let Ants tie you to the car and drag you around a little bit. And you don't want that, right?
curt		No.
joe		Two, you foul up and Holstein hears you and well, ah... you don't want that, right?
curt		No, I don't.
joe		Three, you are successful and you join the Pharoahs with a carcoat, and the blood initiation and all that, huh?
curt		 Wait--wait a minute. Wait a minute! What blood initiation?
debbie		Hey, why don't we go get your jeep?
terry		What? What are you talking about?
debbie		You know, your jeep. The one you sold the hunting ponies for. The one with the four-wheel drive.
debbie		Come on, Terry--Terry?
joe		Hey, you sure you got enough slack?
curt		Yeah, yeah. No sweat. Let's get out of here.
curt		Stand by for Justice!
carol		Why are we stopping here?
john		 Carol...
carol		What?
john		I--I don't think that I can control myself any longer.
carol		You can't?
john		No... Carol, I've got to have you.
carol		Me?
john		All night you've been sitting there and you've been so sexy and it's been so hot--and I can't wait any more...
carol		Well--well, a lot of that's an act, you know. Like... like my crying. It was just an act.
john		Well, it's been building up inside of me like a volcano, all night. Maybe if I knew where you lived I could fight it--I could take you home--but since you won't tell me, and since here we are--I've got to have you. It's too late--
carol		It's not too late! It's never too late! 231 Ramona--two three one--
john		 Two three one--
carol		I'll show you! It's easy to find.
budda		Hi. You mind if I sit down?
steve		Hi Budda. No, have a seat.
budda		I got five minutes outa the rat race, and I saw you all alone. For a change.
budda		Where's Laurie?
steve		I don't know.
budda		I thought the two of you'd be going strong, this being your last night and everything--
steve		We broke up.
steve		No big deal.
budda		Wow... what happened?
steve		Nothing. We were out at the canal and... we had a fight.
steve		What's so funny?
budda		Nothing. Just thinking. A girl like Laurie--I mean, she goes to school and is cute and popular and all, but we're not so different. We know what we want. I've seen her after you for two years now.
steve		She's not like that.
budda		Maybe not. She does have a different approach. Hers is "Never surrender," me I lay down my arms at the drop of a hat--
budda		 All right, relax... old fart. Listen, I'm off in an hour. If you wanta come over, my girlfriend's away for the weekend.
steve		I don't know...
budda		Why don't you? I never got a chance to talk to you. You're leaving tomorrow. Listen, I gave up a long time ago, so it'd be just for fun. No problems.
budda		I'll see ya later then.
steve		Budda, Budda wait.
steve		I gotta get up early and--I just don't think it'd work out.
budda		She's got you so brainwashed--well, hell. Some day I'm gonna win. Don't ya think?
steve		Sure.
joe		Oh mother, it's been a glorious night.
carlos		That was the bitchinest thing I ever seen in my whole life.
ants		I seen a little kid attacked by pigs once, but this was even better.
joe		Oh boy, I'll tell you something, that car must've jumped five feet in the air!
joe		You sure you got to go? The night's young.
curt		Yeah, there's some things I got to do. I still want to find that blonde.
joe		I think she was an optical delusion, man. Psychology-wise it ain't good to dwell on it. You'll alter your ego or something. Anyway, catch ya tomorrow night?
curt		Yeah, I guess so.
joe		Guess so? Man, we don't admit a lot of guys to the Pharoahs. You understand we're going to have to swipe your jacket and all--you gotta make up your mind.
curt		Hey--I'll see you guys.
joe		Sure--listen, remember, Rome wasn't buried in a night.
wolfman		Yeah.
voice		Would you dedicate a record to keep me and my girlfriend together?
wolfman		Are you separated?
voice		Well, see, we're havin' a little problem.
wolfman		I'll bring you right together. Hold on a minute, man. Hi ya, hi ya, hi, hi, hi. Everything's gonna be all right now, man, you understand? Now, let me play the record for you.
falfa		Hey Hey Hey, baby, what do you say?
laurie		Just don't say anything and we'll get along fine.
john		This the first time you've been quiet all night.
carol		I had fun. Goodbye.
carol		Do you like me?
john		Yeah. I like you. You're all right.
carol		But I mean, do you like me?
john		I, ah... I like you. Okay?
carol		Couldn't I have something to remember you by?
john		'Bye, kid.
carol		Gee, thanks. It's just like a ring or something.
john		Yeah.
carol		It's like we were going steady. Wait'll I tell Marcia.
john		Wait a minute, now.
carol		Wait'll I tell everybody.
john		Don't go overboard with this thing.
carol		Well, I'll see you around.
curt		Hold that up.
steve		 I've been thinking--maybe you're right. Why should I leave home to find a new home. Why should I leave friends that I love to find new friends?
curt		Wait a minute, wait a minute. I've heard this already. Aren't you the one who for eight weeks has been telling me you have to leave the nest sometime?
steve		I realize that. I realize--
curt		No--no realizing. You've been telling me all summer that it's time to pull your head out of the sand and take a look at the big, beautiful world out there. Gimme this thing.
steve		 I don't know--I--
curt		 I feel like a mid-wife.
steve		I guess I was wrong. I may have been wrong.
curt		Wrong nothing. You've been talking about getting out of this town for eight weeks. And now--goddamnit!-- you're just--you're just mentally playing with yourself. If you can just relax, we'll talk about it at the airport.
steve		Where are you going? It's awfully early in the morning.
curt		I have a dental appointment.
steve		Come on, Curt...
curt		Just relax, wil ya? I'll see you at the airport.
guy		I never seen a guy lose so much. He mustn't have been used to drinking.
debbie		Oh no, he really likes to drink. He told me.
old man		Gettin' late... I knew a man once who got this sick. Billy Webber. That was ten years ago. What do you think that was there, that he had for dinner?
old woman		Staying on his hands and knees like that...  He looks like a dog, doesn't he? Looks like old Ginger.
old man		Sicker than a dog, that's for sure.
terry		Ohh rats, I feel like--  Wait a second... hey!
terry		It's--oh my god--it looks like Steve's car. Look, right here under our-- it's my car. My car. We found it. Look!
debbie		Maybe we oughta call the police.
terry		Never get here in time. I got a better idea. We'll just steal it back. See if you can find some wire around. We only need a foot to hot-wire it... okay?
attendant		Took the header plugs off. Expectin' some action?
john		Yeah. Think so. There's some punk lookin' for me.
attendant		Why the hell do they bother? You've been number one as long as I can remember.
john		Yeah... it's been a long time, ain't it? I'll see ya. Thanks.
terry		Ah, hi--this is my car. What I mean is, somebody stole my car--I mean I lost my car and I want to thank you two guys for--
terry		--for returning--I mean finding it. I mean, listen now, listen guys-- I've been sick recently, and this kind of activity can really be hard on a guy. Now, easy will you? Easy!
debbie		Stop it, stop it, stop it! Help! Police! You creeps!
terry		Go, John!
debbie		Hit him!
john		Hey, man, you all right?
terry		Yeah. I'll die soon and it'll all be over.
debbie		 Wow--you're just like the Lone Ranger.
john		 Yeah. Listen, are you with the Toad, or were you with them?
terry		You're talking to the woman I love...
john		What happened, man?
steve		Hi, Karen, Judy.
judy		Hi, Steve. Have you seen Laurie lately?
judy		Well, we have.
steve		 Oh yeah. So what?
judy		So nothing. She was just with a really cute guy in a boss car. We wondered who he was.
steve		I wouldn't know.
judy		We do. His name's Bob Falfa.
terry		Help... I mean, I want two cherry cokes with lots of ice. Never mind, forget the cokes, just bring the ice, pronto.
steve		Out! OUT!
terry		What??
steve		I need the car--now.
terry		What's going on?
steve		I'm about to find out.
debbie		I don't believe it! You practically get killed trying to get your car back, then you let him have it.
terry		It's not my car.
debbie		What?
terry		What?
terry		IT IS NOT MY CAR!
debbie		Well, where is your car?
terry		I DON'T HAVE A CAR!
debbie		You don't--no car at all. What about your jeep?
debbie		No car... well, how am I going to get home?
car hop		Where's your car? I gotta hook 'em to your car.
john		What's wrong, Toad? You lose the car again?
terry		 No... Steve took it.
debbie		You know, I had a pretty good time tonight.
terry		Oh come on, you're just--
debbie		No, no, really. I really had a good time. I mean, you picked me up and we got some hard stuff and saw a hold-up, and then we went to the Canal, you got your car stolen, and then I got to watch you gettin' sick, and then you got in this really bitchin' fight... I really had a good time.
terry		You think so? Yeah--well I guess I have pretty much fun every night.
debbie		Anyway if you're not doing anything tomorrow night, why don't you come over?
terry		Yeah--well, I might be busy, you know. But we could--well, I got a little Vespa I just play around with.
debbie		Really? Why that's almost a motorcycle. And I just love motorcycles.
debbie		I got to go.
terry		Ow.
debbie		Goodnight.
terry		See ya.
curt		It's--I want to talk to the Wolfman.
voice		The Wolfman ain't here.
curt		I know, but I got to get in touch with him. I got something to give him before--
voice		We don't take no deliveries after eight. Come back tomorrow.
curt		No, I can't. I want to ask him something that--
voice		Dedications by phone is Diamond 75044. Wolfman Top 40 is Box 13, Chula Vista. Wolfman Sweatshirts is Wolf Enterprises, Bakersfield. 'Bye.
curt		Listen, I got a right to talk to him. I listened to him every night for as long--for twelve years almost. I know him and it's personal and it'll only take a minute and I bet Wolfman would be upset if he knew a friend couldn't get in touch with--
manager		What do you want?
manager		Pull the red switch.
curt		I'm looking for a girl.
manager		Aren't we all. She ain't here. Come on back to the booth.
manager		Hey, have a popsicle. The ice box just broke down and they're meltin' all over the place. You want one?
curt		No. Thanks. Listen, ah...
manager		Have a popsicle.
curt		Are you the Wolfman?
manager		No, man. I'm not the Wolfman.
wolfman		How're you doin', Diane?
diane		All right.
manager		That's the Wolfman.
curt		He's on tape. The man is on tape.
curt		Well, ah--where does he work? I mean, where is the Wolfman now?
manager		The Wolfman is everywhere.
curt		But I got to give him this note.
manager		 Hell, that's just a dedication. All I gotta do is relay it. And it'll be on the air tomorrow, or Tuesday at the latest.
curt		No, no. See, this is very important. I may be leaving town tomorrow, and it's very important that I--damn it, that I reach this girl right now.
manager		You don't know whether you're gonna leave town or not?
curt		Well, I'm supposed to go to college back East tomorrow. And I don't know if I'm gonna go.
manager		Wait a minute. Have a popsicle.
curt		No, thank you.
manager		Sit down a minute.
manager		Listen, it's early in the morning. Now, I can't really talk for the Wolfman. But I think if he was here he'd tell you to get your ass in gear. Now, no offense to your home town here, but this place ain't exactly the hub of the universe, if you know what I mean. And well--I'll tell you this much--the Wolfman does come in here now and then, with tapes, to check up on me, you know, and when I hear the stories he got about the places he goes. Hell, here I sit while there's a big beautiful world out there, don't ya know. Wolfman comes in last time talking about some exotic jungle country, handing me cigars he says was rolled on the naked thighs of brown beauties. The Wolfman been everywhere and he seen everything. He got so many stories, so many memories. And here I sit sucking on popsicles.
curt		Why don't you leave?
manager		Well, I'm no kid anymore. I been here a long time. And the Wolfman-- well, the Wolfman gave me my start and he's sorta become my life. I can't leave him now. Gotta be loyal to the Wolfman, you understand.
manager		I tell you what. If I can possibly do it tonight, I'll try to relay this dedication and get it on the air for you later on.
curt		That'd be great. Thanks. Really.
manager		Sorry, sticky little mothers ain't they? Bye.
curt		'Bye.
curt		Wolfman...
terry		Hey, John, let me go with you. Come on.
john		Naw, man. I can't take you when I'm racin' somebody.
terry		Ah, come on. Just let me go. So I can watch. Or, I'll flag you, okay?
john		All right. Go ahead.
john		Paradise Road.
falfa		All right now, where's this Paradise Road?
laurie		You just follow this street straight out of town... Listen, if you're gonna race John Milner, you can let me out right when we get there.
falfa		Why don't you shut up, baby? You ain't said one word all night long. What a weird broad. But you're gonna appreciate me soon. You're gonna be hangin' on for mercy, when I get this sucker rollin'.
dale		You heading out to Paradise Road?
steve		Paradise Road, I'm not--
dale		Some guy named Falfa going up against Milner.
steve		John's racing Falfa?
dale		Yeah. Figured something was up, saw them going out of town real cautious and then--
john		Hey--Laurie, what in the hell are you doing in there? Is she gonna ride with you?
laurie		Mind your own business, John.
falfa		Yeah, she's with me. You worry about yourself, man.
terry		Everybody ready?
steve		You stupid sonofabitch, she was in that car! Why did you have--
laurie		I said I didn't--you lousy greasy jerk! You coulda killed me--what's wrong with you. You clubfoot...
laurie		No, no, no. Please, don't come near me. No, please. I think I'm gonna be sick. Oh, Steven.
steve		Laurie, please.
laurie		Oh, Steven! Oh, Steven, please, don't leave me. Don't leave me, Steven.
steve		I won't.
laurie		I couldn't bear it.
steve		I won't.
laurie		Please.
steve		Believe me.
john		Come on, before she blows.
terry		Jeez, did you show him! He'll probably never even get in a car again.
john		He was faster.
terry		It was beautiful, John. Just beauti-- what?
john		I was losin', man.
terry		What?
john		He had me, man. He was pullin' away from me just before he crashed.
terry		You're crazy.
john		You saw it.
terry		No, you creamed him, from right off the line. The guy never had a chance.
john		Shit, Toad. The man had me. He was beating me.
terry		John, I don't know what you're talking about. It was the most beautiful thing I've ever seen. That guy, he might as well get a wheelchair and roll himself home. Man, you got... you got the bitchinist car in the Valley. You'll always be number one, John. You're the greatest.
john		Look at your glasses, man.  Okay, Toad. We'll take 'em all.
terry		 Right.
john		We'll take em... let's get out of here.
terry		Jesus, what a night.
curt		Hello, hello, hello!
curt		Yeah... this is Curt, who is this?
voice		Who were you expecting?
curt		Do you drive a white T-Bird?
voice		A white '56. I saw you on Third Street.
curt		You know me.
voice		Of course!
curt		Who are you? How do you know me?
voice		It's not important.
curt		 It's important to me. You're the most perfect, beautiful creature I've ever seen and I don't know anything about you. Could we meet someplace?
voice		I cruise Third Street every night. Maybe I'll see you again tonight.
curt		No... I don't think so.
voice		Why?
curt		I'm leaving... in a couple of hours. Where are you from?
voice		Curt...
curt		What's your name? At least tell me your name?
voice		Goodbye, Curt.
curt		Wait a second! Wait a second!
steve		Good luck.
curt		Yeah, same to you. And I better see you there next year.
steve		Oh yeah, I'll be there.
curt		Sure.
curt		See ya later.
laurie		'Bye 'bye, Curt.
curt		So long, guys.
terry		Well, stay cool, man.
curt		Yeah.
terry		Ah--don't do anything I wouldn't do.
curt		I'll see ya, buddy.
john		I know, you probably think you're a big shot, goin' off like this--but you're still a punk.
curt		Okay, John. So long.
****Dialogues from script :american_hustle.txt****

richie dimaso		What are you doing, going behind my back? Telling people I'm screwing up this operation? I got you a suite at the fuckin' Plaza Hotel!
irving rosenfeld		The shittiest suite at the Plaza Hotel.
irv rosenfeld		The shittiest fuckin' suite.
richie dimaso		Based on what--?
edith greensly		No
irving rosenfeld		Are you dressing him like you're dressing me now?
edith greensly		 No, what are you thinking? This isn't all about you, you know that.
richie dimaso		What, did you try to dress me so I would look like him?
edith greensly		No, you're not dressed like him, all right?
richie dimaso		But I do, I look like him.
edith greensly		No, he's in like, velvet. Come on.
irving rosenfeld		You asked me to show you how this was done, you wanna fuck it up be my guest.
edith greensly		What is your problem?
richie dimaso		Hey, look, I never laid a hand on her, all right? Is that what this is about?
edith greensly		 Well technically, that's not true.
richie dimaso		Look, we never had sex ok? I just --
irving rosenfeld		Don't you fucking touch me. That bothers me --
richie dimaso		Oh it does?
irving rosenfeld		Oh yeah.
richie dimaso		That bothers you?
irving rosenfeld		Yes.
richie dimaso		You know, a lot of shit bothers me too, but I was trying to help you. If I wanted to bother you, if I really wanted to fucking bother you, this is what I'd do.
irving rosenfeld		You shouldn't have done that.
richie dimaso		How's that? You bothered now?  Alright, don't make a thing of it.
edith greensly		You shouldn't touch him. He doesn't like that.
richie dimaso		Oh my god, fix his hair. Don't make a thing of it.
edith greensly		It takes some time, ok.
richie dimaso		Big fucking deal. We got to get in the other room, come on. The mayor's in there.
edith greensly		Yes I know that.
richie dimaso		Should we go to the beauty parlor? Is that what we should do?
irving rosenfeld		How's it look.
edith greensly		You look fine.
richie dimaso		Let's go.
carmine polito		I thought he was going to be here. I do business face to face, person to person. That's just who I am.
carl elway		Whoa, excuse me, excuse me. I'll handle that for the Mayor.
richie dimaso		No, it's for the Mayor. It would be a sign of disrespect to the sheik if the mayor didn't take it himself. It's for you Mayor.
carmine polito		What are you doing? What--  Carl, what the fuck? What is this?
carl elway		No, I'll handle it. I'm gonna take care of-- Everything's good. I got everything under control.  That's for me. I handle all that for mayor.
carmine polito		What is this?
edith greensly		 Just stop it, ok
richie dimaso		 He's gotta take it himself, okay?
carmine polito		I don't know what the fuck that is but it's weird you understand?
carl elway		Misunderstanding. Misunderstanding.
carmine polito		I came here to meet a sheik, that's all I know. I'm very interested in that but he's not here apparently. Carl?!
carl elway		 Irving! You better come get him.
richie dimaso		 Go out there and get him right now.
carl elway		Help me get him back!
richie dimaso		Go get him. He needs to take the fuckin' briefcase, Irving.
irving rosenfeld		I didn't wanna do it in the first place. This is your show, YOU go get him.
richie dimaso		No, you have no choice. You have to go get him. Now, go get him, so he takes the briefcase by himself! That's the whole plan, Irving!
irving rosenfeld		What were you doing pushing the fucking briefcase, dummy? Huh?
richie dimaso		The whole fuckin' thing was falling apart. You know how much I paid for this goddamn hotel that you fucking asked for?!
irving rosenfeld		Now I gotta go mop up your mess. I'm gonna go fucking mop up your mess!
richie dimaso		You understand what I'm saying, right? It wasn't working.
irving rosenfeld		I learned how to survive when I was a kid.
irving rosenfeld		I was gonna survive no matter what. I still had the glass business and a few dry cleaning stores on the side.
irving rosenfeld		Is that Duke Ellington on your bracelet?
sydney prosser		As a matter of fact, it is. He died this year, you know.
irving rosenfeld		I know. I doubt anyone else here knows or cares about it.
sydney prosser		Well I care. He saved my life many times.
irving rosenfeld		 Mine too. Which one?
sydney prosser		Jeep's Blues.
irving rosenfeld		 Jeep's Blues. Oh yeah.
sydney prosser		Right now?
irving rosenfeld		Yeah.
sydney prosser		Sure.
irving rosenfeld		Who starts a song like that?!
sydney prosser		It's magic.
irving rosenfeld		Magic.
sydney prosser		Alright.
sydney prosser		I like it.
sydney prosser		Yes.
irving rosenfeld		-- I got two in the Bronx and three in Manhattan.  Hey, Byron.
irving rosenfeld		I mean you wouldn't believe the shit that people leave behind here. Unbelievable.
sydney prosser		People leave stuff here?
irving rosenfeld		Oh yeah. They go out for the night, they drink, come here in the morning, put their clothes in and then they forget. They got no idea where they left it.
sydney prosser		It's beautiful.
irving rosenfeld		I mean, some of it's been here for years. They're not picking it up. Nobody's picking it up.
sydney prosser		I love it.
irving rosenfeld		It's yours. You want it? It's yours.
sydney prosser		Oh my god. I can only dream about these dresses. They're beautiful.
sydney prosser		What is this place? Do you sell art here?
irving rosenfeld		Yeah, sometimes. This is my office.
sydney prosser		I know it's your office, but, you have these other places. What's this for? Why did you bring me here?
irving rosenfeld		This getting to be my main business, my growing business. I help get loans for guys that can't get loans. I'm their last resort.
sydney prosser		You're their last resort? Because interest rates are north of 12% and heading to 18%.
irving rosenfeld		That's right, smarty pants.
sydney prosser		Fucking Jimmy Carter. Fucking Nixon really. And the war and the deficit and all of that shit.
irving rosenfeld		I love you, you're so smart. You are.
sydney prosser		Thanks kid but how do you get them the money?
irving rosenfeld		Well --
sydney prosser		You don't do you? You don't.
irving rosenfeld		These guys are lousy risks, you know? I can't get them a loan but I get my fee. Five thousand.
sydney prosser		Five thousand? You take five thousand and you don't give them anything?
irving rosenfeld		These are bad guys, you know? They got bad divorces, gambling habits, embezzling, all that shit, you know what I mean?
sydney prosser		Everybody at the bottom crosses paths eventually in a pool of desperation and you're waiting for them.
irving rosenfeld		How about `we'?
sydney prosser		We?
irving rosenfeld		How bout it?
sydney prosser		You said it was nice knowing me. You said it was nice to meet me.
irving rosenfeld		Yeah.
sydney prosser		 Would you like to meet Lady Edith Greensly?
irving rosenfeld		That was fucking fantastic.
sydney prosser		Thank you. Did you like it?
irving rosenfeld		I liked it. I didn't think you were coming back. Thank god you came back.
sydney prosser		I wasn't going anywhere.
irving rosenfeld		I fucking love you.
sydney prosser		You have me.
businessman		Rebecca, hold on. You're Edith right?
businessman		I'm Jim. I'm her employer. Listen - - she told me you can get me a line of credit. I know you have banking connections in London, England.
businessman		Becky tell her! I've never missed a check!
edith greensly		 NO!
edith greensly		Lady Edith Greensly, it's so good to see you again.
sydney prosser		We're very selective.
irving rosenfeld		You got a strong application. We'll talk about it.
irving rosenfeld		I don't take a deal that I can't close.
sydney prosser		You're not being aggressive enough in putting up your assets --  The man looks nervous --  NERVOUS LOAN APPLICANT Have you ever been to Queens? Have you ever been to Great Neck? Everybody knows my dealerships.
desperate man		Five thousand gets me fifty right?
another businessman		Five will get me thirty five. Is that right?
edith greensly		It's really a fabulous example of a genre painting, which is really rare for the time. It's a boy and his dog. Non-religious painting.
irving rosenfeld		Paul Klee. Bauhaus Movement. 1920s.
irving rosenfeld		Let's just say it's missing from Spain and leave it at that.
edith greensly		Don't show any Spanish friends.
danny		DADDY!
irving rosenfeld		Danny. This is a fantastic picture. What did you do today?
danny		That kid Donovan is being mean to me.
irving rosenfeld		The big kid? I thought Mommy picked you up so he couldn't bother you.
danny		She was late, and then after we put out the fire, mommy said stay in my room with my baseball cards.
irving rosenfeld		What fire?
danny		Did you know they make a lamp that has the sun in it? [Irv looks at him] Mommy got the lamp. She made her special drink and the lamp made a fire.
rosalyn rosenfeld		I put out the fire. The fire is out.
irving rosenfeld		For the first time in my life I do the right thing.
rosalyn rosenfeld		Oh shut up --
irving rosenfeld		I save a young single mother, and her kid. I marry her. I adopt him - -
rosalyn rosenfeld		You fell in love! Don't forget we fell madly in love!
irving rosenfeld		Yes, I fell in love. My God, I fell in love. Yes. But you know what? I thought you were mysterious like my mother until it turned out that mysterious just meant depressed, hard to reach. I mean, I'm dying here! And you need somebody who's gonna be quiet like you. You're young, you're beautiful. You gotta find somebody else. You gotta go out and get some friends all right? Don't sit inside --
rosalyn rosenfeld		I don't like going out. You know that I get anxiety when I have to meet people. You know how hard that is.
irving rosenfeld		Yeah but you can't just stay in the house with the fucking sun lamp. Alright? And I can't-- I mean, look, I can't trust you with it anyway. That fire and everything. I can't trust to leave you with Danny.
rosalyn rosenfeld		I put the fire out Irving! There is no fire! Maybe if you were here more, then there wouldn't have been a fire in the first place.
irving rosenfeld		Oh, what, there wouldn't have been a fire if I was here?
rosalyn rosenfeld		Just stop with the whole fire thing. God it was a mistake. I'm sure a million people do that all the time. Those sun lamps are dangerous. Shouldn't even have them in the house, really. I bet that happens all the time. This was nothing.
irving rosenfeld		We're not happy. Alright?
rosalyn rosenfeld		You know that I could take Danny. You know that most of your work is illegal. And you know that if you tried to divorce me, you know that-- I'm not saying that I would, but I'm saying that I could. And I'm saying that that is why I don't like divorce, Irving. Women do that in divorces. Women get the children, and then the fathers never see them. My mother never got divorced. My grandmother never got divorced. There are NO divorces in my family. I am not getting a divorce.
irving rosenfeld		Come on. What are we doing here?
rosalyn rosenfeld		We fight and we fuck and that's what we do. That's our thing.
rosalyn rosenfeld		Irving, come to mama. Come on.
rosalyn rosenfeld		Irving, come here. Come on. Get into bed.
irving rosenfeld		Alright.
rosalyn rosenfeld		63             Baby, there's such good stuff here.                    63
irving rosenfeld		-- and every deal I take, I close. However, my fee is non refundable, just like my time.
irving rosenfeld		That's correct.
edith greensly		No, you didn't mention that. Two lunches and you never mentioned that.
edith greensly		The hat.
edith greensly		You couldn't see his eyes. He had no eyes. It was like, did he make it?
edith greensly		You were going to get me one?
irving rosenfeld		Two lunches?
edith greensly		Yes. It's two lunches. What's the big deal?
irving rosenfeld		That's unusual.
edith greensly		I was trying to get him to be more aggressive. On his loan that is.
edith greensly		Oh, good. You're welcome.
irving rosenfeld		Yeah, right. You liked it? Should I take you there?
edith greensly		Yes.
irving rosenfeld		Should I take you there twice?
edith greensly		Stop.
irving rosenfeld		 What's going on, you like this guy?
edith greensly		Yes I like this guy.
irving rosenfeld		Is that messing up your judgement? Don't be stupid.
sydney prosser		No, he's not messing with my judgment.
irving rosenfeld		Hey, play your part.
edith greensly		Fine. You play your part.
irving rosenfeld		If you could excuse me for one second?
irving rosenfeld		You got the wrong office, you're gonna be embarrassed.
irving rosenfeld		Fraud?! Fraud? What is that? Identity fraud?
edith greensly		 Hey! Not so tight!
irving rosenfeld		Oh really? That's interesting. I don't even know your real name.
richie dimaso		Richie Dimaso, FBI. Nice to meet you.
richie dimaso		 It's herbal. My favorite.
richie dimaso		Been in there three days. Hasn't been so good for her.
irving rosenfeld		Who made you god and judge?
richie dimaso		My grandmother lived to be ninety- three years old. Never lied in her life.
irving rosenfeld		Congratulations.
richie dimaso		Thank you. I'm proud of that, too. Does that make her not a good person? Is that not something to strive for?
irving rosenfeld		Why you breaking my balls? Get to the point.
richie dimaso		I see something in you, Irving. I get very excited. I think that we have a lot of potential here. Now, look. I came up with the idea. It's all from me. I want to change things. I want to go after white collar crime. Irving, you're very skilled. And I want you to teach me and we can do this. I want four people that do what you do. Fraudulent investments. Fake certificates of deposit. Stolen art, fake art. You get me four people and you're off the hook.
irving rosenfeld		Four busts and you'll leave us alone? We don't have to testify?
richie dimaso		You're good, you're done. Anything you want. But if you run, then your life is over. You'll be hunted, and it's gonna be very difficult for Rosalyn and your kid to live in this country.
sydney prosser		We need to leave. We need to run and we need to do it now. We can go to Estonia or Romania, I don't care, we'll take the cash from the bed and get out of here, alright? We talked about it a hundred times.
irving rosenfeld		What about Danny?
sydney prosser		What about Danny?
irving rosenfeld		I adopted him! I gave him my name! I'm not leaving him with Rosalyn, she's unstable!
sydney prosser		That's a manipulation! Rosalyn's will never let you go. She'll use Danny against you because she's too messed up to let you leave.
irving rosenfeld		I can't leave him. I love him. Alright? He's my son.
sydney prosser		Richie said you would say that.
irving rosenfeld		Richie? What, the cop? Your on a first name basis with him?
sydney prosser		Yes I am. I'm not even on your list am I?
irving rosenfeld		What list?
sydney prosser		Your list. Your short list. Your long list. I'm not even on anyone of your fucking lists. I thought you loved me. I thought we had something.
irving rosenfeld		We do have something. I love you, it's perfect! What are you saying? We're gonna go to Romania? We're gonna take Danny?
sydney prosser		Yes. Yes, that's what I'm saying. You, me, Danny.
irving rosenfeld		Well you never said that before.
sydney prosser		I'm saying it now. We're us, and we can make it an adventure like we did. We can make it an adventure like we make everything, alright? But we have to go now. We have to leave right now.
irving rosenfeld		I can't leave Danny. I'll lose custody.
sydney prosser		You have to take me away! We have to leave!
irving rosenfeld		What are you doing?! Please!
sydney prosser		I can't believe this is happening.
irving rosenfeld		Don't say I don't love you because that's bullshit!
sydney prosser		 This is bullshit. You are bullshit. We are bullshit.
irving rosenfeld		Please don't do this.
sydney prosser		I just never thought you were conning me.
irving rosenfeld		I could never con you. I love you. Please don't say this.
sydney prosser		No, I'm done.
irving rosenfeld		Don't say that.
sydney prosser		 I'm gonna do these four busts, these four cons, to get us out of this. Not just me, but us. And I'm gonna get really close with Richie, the cop, in case we need to use him, if we need another move.
irving rosenfeld		We don't need another move. We need four busts, and we're done.
sydney prosser		We are going to need another move, trust me. And you're going to be thanking me.  The key to people is what they believe and what they want to believe and I want to believe that we were real, and I want to believe that a man could want me. And I'm gonna take all of that heartbreak, and all of that sorrow, and I am going to use it. And I'm going to make Richie think that I want him, and that I like him, and I'm going to be very convincing -- And I'm pissed at you.
irving rosenfeld		How do you think this works, stupid?
sydney prosser		If you could not call him `stupid' which he's isn't, he's smarter than you. Last I checked he's in control here and we work for him now so be nice.
irving rosenfeld		 OK, to set this up and bust a con artist we have to make the honey pot to attract the bees. In order to attract the bees, we need to offer them a wealthy individual who can be taken advantage of, someone special, someone new, someone amazing. Then those guys will want to sell fake bank CDS to THAT guy, take the sheik's money, see?
sydney prosser		Only they can't get into his money unless you they know someone, and that someone is us.
richie dimaso		Oh that's good.
irving rosenfeld		Keep your voice down.
richie dimaso		-- or sell fake art or stolen art or fake certificates of deposit, he needs -- who does he need? -- he needs a rich sheik guy, and there you go -- we can pinch him!
irving rosenfeld		Right, but I don't tell Elway shit. I wait for him to call me. The art world is a small world -- and one of Elway's acquaintances is clocking us right now.
richie dimaso		Where?
irving rosenfeld		Don't look.
richie dimaso		How do you know the Sheik?
irving rosenfeld		This is my friend Al from Queens.
irving rosenfeld		I want to show you something. This Rembrandt here? People come from all over the world to see this.
richie dimaso		Yeah, he's good.
irving rosenfeld		It's a fake.
richie dimaso		Wait, what're you talking about? That's impossible.
irving rosenfeld		People believe what they want to believe. Cause the guy who made this was so good that it's real to everybody. Now whose the master -- the painter or the forger?
richie dimaso		That's a fake?
irving rosenfeld		That's the way the world works. Not black and white as you say. Extremely grey.
elway's acquaintance		Irving can I --
irving rosenfeld		How many times I gotta tell you. You can't meet the sheik, alright?
edith greensly		Arthur? Hi. Edith. We've met before.
richie dimaso		 Yeah, I'm Robert Spencer, advisor to the sheik.
carl elway		What's this I hear about a god damn Sheik?! Why you leaving me out of this? I gotta hear about it from my friends?
irving rosenfeld		It ain't for you Carl.
carl elway		What do you mean it ain't for me? We gotta do certificates of deposit. I can print as many as you need.
irving rosenfeld		This is not a one man operation.
carl elway		Look, I can get other guys. What are you talking about Irving?
irving rosenfeld		You're telling me that you can get four guys to sell fake certificates of deposit to my investor within a week?
carl elway		Yes I can make that happen. Carl Elway can do what he says he's going to do.
irving rosenfeld		That's interesting but you know I've got other guys lined up. I've got a meeting with my associates.
carl elway		No wait. Don't go anywhere.
irving rosenfeld		I've got to go.
irving rosenfeld		I'll tell them, don't worry. Hey you know what Carl just told me? He said he could do this whole thing with four guys within a week.
carl elway		Or we could do somethin' much bigger!
richie dimaso		Something bigger? My guy deals with hundreds of millions of dollars. How much bigger?
carl elway		Hundreds of million -- I knew you were holdin' out on me Irving! Hundreds of millions of dollars? Like much bigger. Like I'm talking about we say never the fuck mind the CD's and we could have some complete access to something huge.
richie dimaso		Huge? Like what?  Robert Spencer, advisor to the Sheik.
carl elway		Carl Elway.
irving rosenfeld		Hey, quit while you're ahead Carl.
carl elway		I know the guy. I know the right people who are going to help you out.
richie dimaso		Whose the guy?
carl elway		The guy is Carmine Polito.
richie dimaso		Whose Carmine Polito?
stoddard thorsen		 Carmine Polito? Carmine Polito, no.
carmine polito		 The W.P.A. employed craftsmen to paint this during the Depression. Why can't we employ people today to do work like this in rebuilding Atlantic City?
stoddard thorsen		You said grifters and con artists. We're not going after some politician. This is a bad idea, Richard.
richie dimaso		Shhhh. Look, it's really simple. All you need is to put two million in a Chase account --
stoddard thorsen		What?!
stoddard thorsen		Whose two million?!
richie dimaso		Shh, just listen. Two million dollars under the Sheik's name, in a Chase account that we control. Carmine calls up on the telephone -- calls the bank -- and he sees that the Sheik is real and he has a real account. Five days.
stoddard thorsen		I'm not taking two million dollars of the taxpayers' money and putting it anywhere for five days, I don't care if we control it the whole time.
richie dimaso		Stoddard, let us do what we need to do to rule out corruption and to get rid of the payoff guys that are ruining this country. That's my dream. Don't smother it, please.
stoddard thorsen		You know Richard, I understand your eagerness. I really do. You know I'm from Michigan, right? Let me tell you a story about me, and my dad, and my brother. We used to go ice fishing every November. Ice Fishing. That's what we lived for.
richie dimaso		Holy shit --
stoddard thorsen		Just listen to me. It's beautiful. You have a little stove. You huddle around, you keep each other warm. You drop a line and you just wait. One year my brother says, "let's go in October." He wants to go ice fishing in October. My dad says, "No, the ice is too thin." My brother says -- I love my brother he says --
richie dimaso		I understand what's happening. You're saying your brother went out on the ice, the ice was too thin, he fell through the ice, he went in the water because he was too eager, and you're saying I'm too eager -- that's what you're saying?
stoddard thorsen		No, that's not what I'm saying.
richie dimaso		What are you saying?
stoddard thorsen		We'll finish the ice fishing story another time, young man. For now, no Carmine Polito. Go do your job.
richie dimaso		Boring.
smash to:		 85   Edith and Richie enter to find BRENDA, FBI, MATRONLY, OLDER;   85 EDITH carries a basket of exotic teas;
edith greensly		Brenda, hi!
brenda mcpherson		Hi!
edith greensly		You said you liked exotic food, so that's from England.
brenda mcpherson		That's from England?
edith greensly		That's right. And I brought you some tea as well.
brenda mcpherson		Thank you so much! Nobody ever tells me about these operations, they just say, "Brenda, do the clerical wiring work and don't ask questions."
edith greensly		You need to tell Richie about your cats. He loves them.
brenda mcpherson		Oh my cats?!
richie dimaso		That's impressive.
anthony amado		I'm very impressed. That was very smart. The Sheik with the money in the bank is a fantastic...don't be modest.
stoddard thorsen		Thank you, sir, wait, the sheik --
stoddard thorsen		You made me accept praise from my boss who's thanking me for something that never shoulda happened! Something that I didn't approve!
richie dimaso		You should be happy. There's imaginative things happening in this office, alright? We're not just working in a box.
stoddard thorsen		Punk.
irving rosenfeld		We succeeded because we stayed small. I got you Carl Elway. He bought stolen art, sold fake bank C.D.'s, that's enough. That's one. I get you three more -- no politicians.
richie dimaso		You're gonna do this because you got no choice. You work for me.
irving rosenfeld		Now you keep changing the rules. You're gettin' a little power drunk, Richard. 
edith greensly		Oh no, I said we shouldn't do any of it, Irving. You know I said that. So now I support Richie. He's got vision. Do it heavy or don't do it.
irving rosenfeld		I mean, he's the one ruining America, not me.
richie dimaso		How the hell am I ruining America?
irving rosenfeld		Because people just got over Watergate and Vietnam, alright? And you're gonna shit all over politicians again? And just because you want to be a big shot and get a promotion.
richie dimaso		No I'm thinking big. This is gonna be fantastic. We're doing video surveillance. I'm doing this from the feet up.
irving rosenfeld		You will never do it properly because you got too much government attitude to be small and sleek. I'm like the fuckin' Vietcong, man. I'm in and I'm out. I was there the whole time -- you don't know it. That's the fucking art of becoming somebody who people can pin their beliefs and their dreams on. And you can't do it.
richie dimaso		How about a suite at the Sheraton Hotel?
irving rosenfeld		For Carmine Polito and rebuilding Atlantic City?
richie dimaso		Why not?
irving rosenfeld		You need a luxury hotel for the Sheik. Come on!
richie dimaso		Carmine does back door dealings all the time. We don't have a budget for that Irving!
irving rosenfeld		You gotta knock the Mayor, the Speaker of the State Assembly -- you gotta knock him off of his fucking feet. He's gotta feel like he's out of his league. What you're offering, this deal, I mean, this is unheard of in the state of New Jersey, maybe even the whole fucking country. A sheik with hundreds of millions of dollars to rebuild Atlantic City -- are you fuckin' kidding me? That's gigantic. And the Mayor, he's going to want to see cash, he's going to want to see it in an account, he's going to want to see it right now, and he will check. And that's why this meeting isn't happening, because to get millions, you need millions.
edith greensly		 We already did it.
irving rosenfeld		 What?
edith greensly		We got the bureau to park 2 million for three days -- we got the account numbers.
irving rosenfeld		`We' meaning you and him?
richie dimaso		Yeah we did it.
irving rosenfeld		Really?
edith greensly		Yeah, me and that guy.
richie dimaso		She showed me.
irving rosenfeld		You showed him our thing? You did that without me? Are you kidding me?
edith greensly		What are you going to do?
richie dimaso		You playing me? Are we doing this? Or you playing him? It'd be very bad for you if you're playing me.
edith greensly		You're going to have to decide for yourself, kid, I just laid everything out on the table.
richie dimaso		This is all very exciting, I never knew life could be like this. You're wild. You know we're taking down a very important politician.
irving rosenfeld		Mr. Mayor -- Please stop. Listen, I apologize if that prick offended you. I really apologize.
carmine polito		Really, I'm all right, thank you. I'm okay.
irving rosenfeld		No. I'm fucking embarrassed to be associated with that guy at all. Can I just say somethin' to you, please? Don't lose this opportunity to fuckin' Florida -- all right? -- because of some bullshit from that punk advisor with his diploma who could never get into the school that we come from. Don't lose that opportunity.
carmine polito		Where you from?
irving rosenfeld		I'm from the Bronx. Grand Concourse, Hundred and Sixty-fourth Street.
carmine polito		I got a lot of friends that live up there. I go to Tomaso's on Arthur Avenue. You know Tomasos's?
irving rosenfeld		Yeah, Tomaso's.
carmine polito		The spicy clams.
irving rosenfeld		Yes. They're always good.
carmine polito		Oh, they're to fucking die for, those clams. I haven't been there in a while. I like that place.
irving rosenfeld		Carmine -- can I call you Carmine? You know, Carmine --  My fuckin' heart's going from running down the stairs -- I'm not used to running. There's a lotta green grass in that hotel room up there, alright? And all the deals would float through you. You get a serious piece on both ends. You do with that what you will. I live in the real world, I am a family man, I got mouths to feed and everything. But, you know, we just...we gotta grease you directly. No middlemen, no bullshit. It's the Arab way.
carmine polito		Yeah, look, I understand. It's a great opportunity. It's just I got a little thrown by going to have a meeting with somebody who ended up not being there, so --
irving rosenfeld		Hey, listen, I was thrown as well.
carmine polito		I understand. I'll deal with you directly. I don't want any middleman or any of that bullshit.
irving rosenfeld		Done.
carmine polito		I like you. Eye to eye. We can do business together.
irving rosenfeld		I gotta work with him. He's the Sheik's man.
carmine polito		But I still need to meet the Sheik, okay?
irving rosenfeld		Done.
irving rosenfeld		I'm going out to dinner with Carmine and the wives in Camden.
richie dimaso		Who?
irving rosenfeld		Carmine and myself and the wives.
richie dimaso		What?! Without me?!
irving rosenfeld		He doesn't like you, what do you want from me, I got him to come back and take the money and you got him on tape alright? I can't make him like you. I did my job.
richie dimaso		Did you tell him you were working with me? That I'm the Sheik's associate?!
irving rosenfeld		I just fucking told you he doesn't like you. I mean, let him have a night out with a human being for fuck's sake, he's going to jail soon. You're done with him. You got him on tape taking a bribe.
richie dimaso		Carmine has got to deal with me, Irving.
irving rosenfeld		What?! Like who?!
richie dimaso		Carmine's gonna use the Sheik to pay off people.
irving rosenfeld		Are you fuckin' nuts? What are you say--
richie dimaso		We're gonna let Carmine show the Sheik Atlantic City, how he's gonna renovate hotels, and see who shows up. Whoever the Sheik pays off for licenses and casinos, that's who we're gonna go after. We're gonna go after all of 'em!
irving rosenfeld		More politicians? You realize how fuckin' dangerous that is? There's no fucking reasoning with you. 
richie dimaso		If your that successful, how come you wound up in this room with me? Taking orders from me.
edith greensly		You're taking your wife out to dinner? Your fucking wife? Did I just hear you correctly?
irving rosenfeld		That's the one thing you heard me say?
edith greensly		I just find it rather shocking that's all.
irving rosenfeld		I get to handle two wives with one dinner, alright? I take Rosalyn out, she keeps her mouth shut, she sees that my work is legitimate, I get to keep my kid, and I get to keep  that fucking wife happy. Both wives happy.
richie dimaso		Oh my god, what did you do?
richie's mother		Richard, the filter is broken in the fish tank. It's a problem.
richie dimaso		See, your job is to do the filter, Mom, mine is to do the gravel. When you don't do the filter right all the fish die. See?
richie's mother		I can't get the top on that filter.
richie dimaso		I've gone over this a hundred times mom --
richie's mother		-- and please help Richard to marry Diane so that I may have grandchildren and the Pope may have more followers. And please bless this food that we are about to eat - -
richie dimaso		Yeah, hello?
edith greensly		Hi.
richie dimaso		Who's this?
edith greensly		It's Edith.  RICHIE'S MOTHER  Sit down and pray properly!
richie dimaso		Are you alright?
edith greensly		Yeah, I'm fine, I'm just alone, you know? Irving's out with Carmine.
richie dimaso		That's right, he went out with Carmine and his wife. You must not feel so good about that.
edith greensly		Wait who's there? Who are you with?
richie dimaso		Oh, no, it's just people.
edith greensly		Oh, you've got a fiance. You're engaged.
richie dimaso		Well, I don't know, no fiance.    I don't know.
edith greensly		You don't know if you have a fiance?
richie dimaso		I don't know --
edith greensly		You don't know? You don't know if you have a fiance?
richie dimaso		I don't. No.
edith greensly		Hmm -- intersting.
richie dimaso		Hey, you want to get together?
edith greensly		Fifty-fourth Street?
richie dimaso		OK, fifty-fourth street.
edith greensly		OK.
richie dimaso		That's what that phone call's about. Everybody thought, "Oh, Richie DiMaso's gonna stay in the office, pushing papers." That's not gonna happen, Mom. I'm outside in the field. I got people working for me. My ideas. I'm running the show. I'm the quarterback. And I'm not gonna settle for no one, Mom.
carmine polito		Rocco, you know like we do. The chicken very thin. You should see the way he does this chicken with the red sauce
dolly polito		It's beautiful.
carmine polito		Right? With the red sauce, the lemon--
dolly polito		It's the Piccata of the gods!
irving rosenfeld		I believe that you should treat people the way that you want to be treated.
carmine polito		Right.
irving rosenfeld		Didn't Jesus say that or something?
carmine polito		He may have.
irving rosenfeld		Also, always take a favor over money. I think Jesus said that as well.
carmine polito		 I don't know if he said the second one but he may have said the first one.
rosalyn rosenfeld		 I chip them moving furniture, it's my obsession -- Moving, re- decorating, it makes me feel better like exercise. There's this top coat that you can only get from Switzerland and I don't know what I'm going to do because I'm running out of it but I LOVE the smell of it.
dolly polito		I can get that for you, of course.
rosalyn rosenfeld		There's something, the topcoat,  it's like perfumey but there's also something rotten? I know that sounds crazy, but I can't get enough of it.
irving rosenfeld		I can't get enough.
rosalyn rosenfeld		 Carmine, sweet and sour. Rotten and delicious.
carmine polito		Smells like flowers.
rosalyn rosenfeld		Flowers, but with garbage.
carmine polito		You know what that is for me? It's coriander for me.
rosalyn rosenfeld		Irving loves it. He can't get enough. That's what hooks you. He always comes back for it.
irving rosenfeld		I can't stop.
rosalyn rosenfeld		 He's gonna say we have to talk business in five, four, three, two, one --
irving rosenfeld		 Dolly, can me and the mayor talk business here?
rosalyn rosenfeld		 AHH-HA-HAHAAAAAAAAHHHHH!
edith greensly		Didn't your fiance want to come out tonight?
richie dimaso		Yeah, no, I don't know.
edith greensly		I'm sorry, we don't have to talk about it. I was just teasing you.
richie dimaso		Do you ever think, how did I end up here? How did my life become this? You ever think that? And you wonder, am I ever gonna get to a better place or is this it? You ever feel like that?
edith greensly		I do. I definitely know that.
richie dimaso		No, I need this. Please, I need to go dancing with you.
edith greensly		OK baby, let's go dancing.
richie dimaso		I really fucking like you.
edith greensly		I like you too. I want to live, alright. For real. No more fake shit. Alright?
richie dimaso		OK.
edith greensly		No more fake shit.
richie dimaso		No more fake shit.
edith greensly		No more fake shit!
edith greensly		Get out!
richie dimaso		 I want to be fucking real!
edith greensly		AHHHHHHH!
carmine polito		 This guy right here, Irving Rosenfeld? You know what he's gonna do? He's gonna bring the Sheik to Atlantic City, where we can rebuild all those resorts there, put everybody back to work.
julius		To Irving.
girls		To Irving!
carmine polito		This guy right here. He's got a big heart.
irving rosenfeld		 I'd just hate it if it didn't work out.
carmine polito		What do you mean? Of course it's going to work out. Guys like you and me? We dream and we build. We never give up. We never quit.
carmine polito		Can I ask you a question.
irving rosenfeld		Sure.
carmine polito		Is the sheik black?
irving rosenfeld		He's an Arab.
carmine polito		That's black, isn't it?
irving rosenfeld		Why you asking?
carmine polito		Maybe it's a dumb question, but I was just wondering -- I would like to arrange for the Sheik to see Camden. To see the people of Camden. The people I serve. The people I love. Who are mostly black and Puerto Rican. I really want him to see how good this is going to be for the community, how ready we are for this opportunity, and he can see how far his dollar will go. You know what I mean? What do you think?
irving rosenfeld		Yeah we can do that. He can see Camden.
carmine polito		 Hey, I got something I wanna give to you.
irving rosenfeld		For me?
carmine polito		I got you a gift. Let's get out of here. The girls are going to kill us I'm sure.
irving rosenfeld		What is it?
carmine polito		It's a microwave. It heats up everything. Pasta, lasagna, meatballs, whatever.
irving rosenfeld		Really?
carmine polito		It's science, yeah. That's how it heats up the food. It's scientific.
irving rosenfeld		And you specifically bought this science oven for me.
carmine polito		 Yes. A new friend.
irving rosenfeld		Thank you.
carmine polito		Don't put metal in it. Come on, let's get out of here.
richie dimaso		I need a jet at Teeterboro for the sheik.
stoddard thorsen		You don't need a jet. Let him walk to the curb at JFK.
richie dimaso		Stoddard, that's not how it works. You got to do it from the feet up.
stoddard thorsen		That doesn't mean anything. What's that mean?
richie dimaso		It means you gotta be committed! It means you gotta be committed to something in your life, for Christ's sake. I want a jet at Teterboro for the Sheik. It can be a small jet. It doesn't even have to take off, cause I know you're so worried about how much money the Bureau's gonna fucking spend. It can take off and land on the tarmac, okay?
stoddard thorsen		Alright, you can have a jet for an hour, but it takes off and lands at Teterboro.
richie dimaso		I got the jet?
stoddard thorsen		You got the jet.
richie dimaso		110             Thank you.                                            110
stoddard thorsen		Where was I?
richie dimaso		Your father woke you up, it was a blizzard, it was Lake Canoga. Come on!
stoddard thorsen		Okay, well, my brother and I were on the ice and my father came out of the house and I could see him coming. He was holding a lantern, and it was in the blizzard and I knew he was gonna be angry. So I went to intercept my father because I knew if he saw what my brother was doing he was going to kill him.
richie dimaso		So you tried to protect your brother, but you couldn't and that's why you feel bad, because you're trying to protect me and you're worried about me. Is that what the story's about? About protection?
stoddard thorsen		No, it's not about protection.
richie dimaso		It's not about protection?
stoddard thorsen		No.
richie dimaso		Alright, fine.
rosalyn rosenfeld		 "Don't put metal in the science oven, don't put metal in the science oven, Rosalyn"...always treats me like a fucking child. I'll do whatever I want.
danny		 Another fire!
rosalyn rosenfeld		 No, Danny, not that one! That one's empty! We gotta use the big one!
irving rosenfeld		I told you not to put metal in the science oven. Why did you do that for?
rosalyn rosenfeld		Don't make such a big deal. Just get another one.
irving rosenfeld		I don't want another one. I want the one that Carmine gave me.
rosalyn rosenfeld		"I want the one Carmine gave me!" Carmine, Carmine, why don't you just marry Carmine, get a little gold microwave and put it on a chain around your neck. You want to be more like Carmine? Why don't you build something like he does, instead of all your empty deals that are just like your fucking science oven. You know I read that it takes all of the nutrition out of our food. It's empty, just like your deals. Empty, empty!
irving rosenfeld		That's bullshit.
rosalyn rosenfeld		It's not bullshit. I read it in an article. Look, by Paul Brodeur.
rosalyn rosenfeld		Bring something into this house that's gonna take all the nutrition out of our food and then light our house on fire? Thank God for me.
irving rosenfeld		I don't think you should come to Carmine's party tonight. You look beautiful by the way.
edith greensly		Don't look at me. Don't look at my legs, don't look at my hair, don't smell my hair, don't ask me how I am, don't talk to me outside of these roles, 'cause we're done.
irving rosenfeld		What are you doing? Get under the umbrella. It's just that Carmine wants Rosalyn to come.
edith greensly		I don't care. You weren't listening. I don't care if Rosalyn comes. Just do your job, okay? You're nothing to me until you're everything. I'm not Rosalyn. I'm not gonna put up with that shit.
richie dimaso		Now that's a fucking jet right?
irving rosenfeld		It's good.
richie dimaso		That's the kinda moves you need to make.
richie dimaso		Paco, Richie Dimaso, good to meet you in person [shakes Paco's hand] - this is Irving Rosenfeld.
paco hernandez		Paco Hernandez. Nice to meet you.
irving rosenfeld		Paco? He's--wait, he's not a real Arab.
paco hernandez		No. I'm Mexican. From Tuscon.
irving rosenfeld		Wait, where's my guy? Where's Al from Queens?
richie dimaso		Who?
irving rosenfeld		My friend from Queens. Where is he? What are you doing?
richie dimaso		I gotta hire an F.B.I. guy.
irving rosenfeld		What are you--  You speak any Arabic?
paco hernandez		Yeah.   Abdullah Ahmed.
irving rosenfeld		That's it? That's all you got?
paco hernandez		No, I have a couple phrases.
irving rosenfeld		 Act normal. That's it. Like you can barely understand English. You can't speak it. You say as little as possible. You follow my lead. Alright?
paco hernandez		 Who's running this?    I thought you were running it.
richie dimaso		I am running this but you've gotta listen to him. He's the guy with the vision.
irving rosenfeld		I've got the vision? You know what vision I had? You just kissing my girl outside. That's what vision I had.
richie dimaso		 I thought you guys broke up. I'm giving you a compliment.
paco hernandez		What's going on?
richie dimaso		Don't worry about it.
irving rosenfeld		You got a knife. This is for the Mayor. You've got to present it to him. Look me in the eye. This means a lot to you. Right? That knife.
paco hernandez		OK.
irving rosenfeld		Play it. You present it. "Friendship for life," alright? You gotta feel it. Sacred. Can you do it?
paco hernandez		Right. Sacred.
irving rosenfeld		You gotta sell it.
richie dimaso		Sell it.
irving rosenfeld		If you believe it's sacred, it's sacred.
richie dimaso		Listen to what he's saying.
irving rosenfeld		Can you do it?
richie dimaso		It's the details. That's what makes this guy a genius.
irving rosenfeld		Again? You compliment me again. What is this, rubbing salt in the wound?
richie dimaso		I'm complimenting you.  Any other questions?
paco hernandez		Yeah, I think the name of this operation is offensive.
richie dimaso		What?
paco hernandez		Abscam. "Arab Scam?" It's racist.
irving rosenfeld		Are you fucking kidding? What do you care? You're Mexican.
carmine polito		Hello Sheik, my friend. Welcome. On behalf of the great state of New Jersey I want to welcome you to New Jersey. I know that was redundant. I'm sorry. I'm just very nervous.
rosalyn rosenfeld		 But what are you talking about, I can't go? I just did my hair and makeup and everything!
irving rosenfeld		The Sheik's very particular. It's international cultural protocol.
rosalyn rosenfeld		International protocol? What the fuck are you talking about?
irving rosenfeld		Do not answer that!
rosalyn rosenfeld		 Hello -- Robert Spencer? I don't know a Robert Spencer. What do you want?
irving rosenfeld		 Give it to me.
rosalyn rosenfeld		Who is that?
irving rosenfeld		 Look, I told you, for God's sake, I told you not to call here.
rosalyn rosenfeld		What is that about?
richie dimaso		 Two more federal agents tonight, OK?
irving rosenfeld		No way.
richie dimaso		Yes. They're bodyguards for the Sheik.
irving rosenfeld		That's too many people for me to control, no.
richie dimaso		Look. I'm in charge here, alright? Just do it.
irving rosenfeld		Rosalyn, get off the extension!
rosalyn rosenfeld		 I'm not on it!
irving rosenfeld		Look, don't call here again, alright? Don't call at home.
richie dimaso		Alright?
irving rosenfeld		OK.
richie dimaso		Good night.
rosalyn rosenfeld		Federal agents?
irving rosenfeld		It's bodyguards for the visiting dignitary, that's all.
rosalyn rosenfeld		What is it, an I.R.S. thing?     Like a tax investigation?
irving rosenfeld		Why you gotta say that? I mean, that's why I can't invite you. It's too complicated. Listen, come on.
rosalyn rosenfeld		Are you in trouble?
irving rosenfeld		Look, stop being so nosy.
rosalyn rosenfeld		I'm only nosy cause you never tell me anything.
irving rosenfeld		Can we clean up this fridge? I mean, what are you causing trouble for all the time?
carmine polito		Tell him he's crazy!
rosalyn rosenfeld		Well, I agree. Want to tell him yourself?
irving rosenfeld		Gimme the phone, come on.
carmine polito		It wouldn't be a party without you!
rosalyn rosenfeld		Can you imagine? Tell him yourself.
irving rosenfeld		 Hey, Carmie.
carmine polito		Irving, you're crazy! Your wife is coming, you kidding me? She's the life of the party! Everybody loves her.
rosalyn rosenfeld		I'm the life of the party!
irving rosenfeld		 Look, you know what she's like. She's unpredictable. She's just always --
rosalyn rosenfeld		Hey, don't talk about me like that! What's Carmine saying?
irving rosenfeld		I can't hear what he's saying.
carmine polito		Listen, Irving, it's very important that she come, you understand?
rosalyn rosenfeld		Carmine loves me.
carmine polito		 This is a really big night for us, you understand? Come on, you gotta bring your wife. And Dolly's got somethin' special for her.
dolly polito		Tell her I got the nail polish for her.
carmine polito		See? Listen!
dolly polito		 I got your nail polish for you, sweetie!
carmine polito		You see? Somethin' special for you. What is it? Tell me. I mean,  What is it, you got a girlfriend coming? Come on, I thought we were friends. You're not gonna tell me you got a girlfriend? This is ridiculous.
irving rosenfeld		No, it's just Rosalyn's unpredictable.
carmine polito		Look, we're gonna handle this like men, you understand? You're bringing your wife. We're gonna have a good time. That's an order from the Mayor. Good-bye.
irving rosenfeld		 Alright, you happy? Go get ready.
rosalyn rosenfeld		Yes, I am happy.
rosalyn rosenfeld		 I know who you are.
carmine polito		So this is the lobby. Now mind you, a week ago this place was a mess, but what existed was this plasterwork. Look at the detail. This is beautiful. My sons are craftsmen.  Please, tell them what you did.
dolly polito		Tell them everything you know. The trompe l'oeil.
dominic polito		Birds, sky, clouds, wood. Trompe l'oeil -- "Trick of the eye."
carmine polito		We can restore all of this, you see? You save 50 million -- look at me -- fifty million right off the bat -- I waive the law I helped write. It said casino construction must be ground up new, we don't do new. We renovate.
dolly polito		We don't do new. We renovate.
carmine polito		We put in some temporary fun -- some gaming tables, some play money for people to have a good time. For charity -- the Boys and Girls Club and some arts programs.
carmine polito		This is the Ocean Room --
carmine polito		There are some gentlemen over there at the bar. That's a hundred and thirty years sitting there -- that's how much time's between them. They run the biggest casinos in the United States. We have to work with them.
irving rosenfeld		Right.
carmine polito		The good news is they know how it's done. They get it done. You don't have to worry. Everyone makes their money.
irving rosenfeld		You mean the Mob?
carmine polito		Yes, but they're businessmen, okay? Now, spend as much or as little time with them as you like, but we do have to deal with them. All we've got to do is go say hello. We just gotta say hi, that's all.
irving rosenfeld		Carmine, maybe -- I'm not sure that's such a good idea. We gotta confer before we talk to these guys.
richie dimaso		 Confer? What is there to confer about? They're casino guys.
carmine polito		They are businessmen.
richie dimaso		We came all this way, Irving. We should be here. What's everybody scared of? There's nothing to be scared of.
rosalyn rosenfeld		 Those are the guys you're all scared of? Those guys over there? They don't scare me.
irving rosenfeld		Rosalyn!
richie dimaso		I love this!
rosalyn rosenfeld		Hi.   Can I sit here?
carmine polito		Irving, this is not a good idea.
rosalyn rosenfeld		How you guys doing? Everybody over there is really scared of you guys, you know that?
dolly polito		Kids, I want you to go up and get some pizza and soda, please.
edith greensly		It's a disaster.
rosalyn rosenfeld		I think they have this room all wrong.
pete musane		Yeah? What would you do?
rosalyn rosenfeld		I would do it in all black and gold and I would do this bar like a big, warm golden mirror.
dick helsing		Sounds beautiful.
rosalyn rosenfeld		Thank you.
pete musane		But you expect that from her because she's so beautiful --
rosalyn rosenfeld		Oh stop.
dick helsing		Gorgeous.
pete musane		I love her hair, so I know I'm gonna love how she'd do the room --
richie dimaso		How do you do?
pete musane		 I'm sorry is she your wife?
irving rosenfeld		No, she's my wife. She's my wife.
carmine polito		Look at these fine gentleman.
pete musane		Carmine, there you are.
carmine polito		How you doing?
rosalyn		It's because he's a party pooper. He's so boring.
pete musane		You have a very beautiful wife.
richie dimaso		May I present Sheik Abdullah, gentlemen, from Abu Dhabi. Sheik, these men are professionals, they run the best casinos in the United States.
pete musane		Mr. Sheik, as a sign of our seriousness, Mr. Tallegio came from Miami to meet you tonight.
carmine polito		Mr. Tallegio? Why didn't you tell me Mr. Tallegio was here?
pete musane		He's in the back room.
irving rosenfeld		It's a sign of disrespect to do business on the first meeting.
richie dimaso		That's not true. I don't know what your talking about.  He's got it all wrong.
dick helsing		Well, don't leave him back there in the back room waiting. Come on, let's go.
rosalyn rosenfeld		Hey Irving, I'm going to be having fun. Maybe it will be contagious.
victor tellegio		Carmine!
carmine polito		You sure you don't want to go into the Ocean Bar? It's really, it's beautiful in there.
carmine polito		So, Mister Tellegio, how do you think we should approach this? What do you want to do?
victor tellegio		If you want to get the gaming license and keep it we have to make our principal investor here, the Sheik, an American citizen.
carmine polito		To expedite citizenship -- well, that requires very special treatment.
victor tellegio		You would know the right people to do that, Carmine.
richie dimaso		Carmine knows everybody.
irving rosenfeld		What are we talking about?
carmine polito		U.S. Senators. Congressmen.
richie dimaso		Wow, that's fantastic.
irving rosenfeld		I say stay away from that. That's bad. That's trouble. No, that's not good.
richie dimaso		Irving please.
irving rosenfeld		That's trouble.
victor tellegio		Who is this guy?  What are you, a farmer?
carmine polito		Mr. Tellegio, I'm sorry, this is Irving. New York businessman. Irving Rosenfeld.
victor tellegio		Irving, Irving. What's the matter, Irving? What's the problem?
irving rosenfeld		Nothing. No problem.
victor tellegio		Don't get your balls in an uproar. Everything's fine, everything's good. It's all good. It's all good. I just hope the other part of this is all good. And real. Because we're real. You know that. You deal with us. We're a real organization. We deal with you, we don't know what we're dealing with.
victor tallegio		Where's he from?
richie dimaso		 Abu Dhabi.
victor tellegio		Oh, he's from the Emirates.
richie dimaso		Yeah.
richie dimaso		Uh, I think, I think what he's --
victor tellegio		No, let him speak for himself.
carmine polito		No, I know him.
al kowalski		You guys are way too serious for a party! Hey, what are you drinking? You got a drink?
carmine		 I apologize.
al kalowski		I understand, you're in conference. You gotta come with me now. You got a speech to give. Everyone's waiting for you.
carmine polito		Al, I'll be right behind you, okay? Trust me.
sheik abdullah		 It is great doing business with you. The investment is real. It was a pleasure to meet you.
victor tellegio		Listen to me carefully. If you're real, you put ten million in the bank of our choice in the next two weeks.
edith greensly		Rosalyn, you need to come with me alright?
rosalyn rosenfeld		I don't need to come with you.
edith greensly		You need to come with me. This needs to stop. Come on.
rosalyn rosenfeld		Oh, you think I should come with you?
edith greensly		Yeah, you need to come with me right now.
rosalyn rosenfeld		Why don't you get your fucking hands off me, you fucking whore!
pete musane		Hey!
rosalyn rosenfeld		You're a whore.  This is my husband's whore!
edith greensly		That's real nice.
dolly polito		We're not going to do this in the Ocean Room tonight. Not tonight. Please.
rosalyn rosenfeld		This is my husbands whore!
dolly polito		You stay over here with me. Everybody just calm down. I don't know what's going on.
pete musane		You alright? Take it easy. These things happen. Whatever's meant to be will be.
rosalyn rosenfeld		That's what I always say.
pete musane		You say that?
rosalyn rosenfeld		Yeah.
pete musane		See? Kindred spirits.
rosalyn rosenfeld		Whatever's meant to be will be.
pete musane		Whatever's meant to be will be.
edith greensly		What the hell do you think you're doing?
rosalyn rosenfeld		What the hell do I think I'm doing?! What the fuck do you think you're doing? You really gonna come in here and judge me for flirting with somebody after you've been fucking my husband for how many years?!
edith greensly		You don't have any fucking clue what's going on!
rosalyn rosenfeld		I got a ring on my finger. We have a child together.
edith greensly		He doesn't love you Rosalyn he loves me. And you know it and I know it and he knows it. And it might be done now, but it was beautiful and it was real.
rosalyn rosenfeld		Stop.
edith greensly		And we loved each other.
rosalyn rosenfeld		Shut up.
edith greensly		You scare him, and you manipulate him, and you use your son!
rosalyn rosenfeld		Well, he must like it on some level. He must want it because he keeps coming back for it. It's like that perfume that you love that you can't stop smelling, even when there's something sour in it. You can't get enough of it. But guess what, he's never gonna leave me. He's always going to want me, and I will make you so sorry, Edith. I will make you so sorry for what you've done to my family, mark my words.
edith greensly		That is fucked up! I would never say anything that fucked up to anybody, but you do because you're gross inside, you're so fucked up and gross.
rosalyn rosenfeld		Oh, I'm gross inside?
edith greensly		Yeah.
rosalyn rosenfeld		Maybe you're gross inside, with robbing people and all that shit that you do? Maybe we're both gross inside, that's what Irving loves about us. At least he's consistent with his women. You know, sometimes in life all you have are fucked up, poisonous choices.
edith greensly		We need to talk! This is serious.
al kalowski		Ladies and gentlemen, your friend, the working man's friend, my friend, Mayor Carmine Polito!
carmine polito		 Please, raise a glass with me to a new era that begins tonight. From me and my family, we thank you. For all the hard work that you've given us in the community. Look what you've done. This is beautiful! Thank you!  Crowd ROARS WILDLY. Irv watches, MOVED AND DESTROYED.  DISSOLVE TO: SHOTS OF EMPTY BALL ROOM, TRASHED HALLWAYS, ATLANTIC CITY STREET TO OCEAN -- OCEAN SOUNDS  SMASH TO:
richie dimaso		Can I use your phone?
stoddard thorsen		 Stoddard Thorsen.
richie dimaso		 Listen, I need the Sherman Suite at the Plaza Hotel, okay?
stoddard thorsen		 That's a whole floor of the hotel.
richie dimaso		I need a whole floor. I need it for my operation
stoddard thorsen		 Stop calling it your operation, Richard. It's not your operation. And I'm not giving you a whole floor of the Plaza Hotel.
richie dimaso		I have members of Congress that are gonna come in right now to try to give the Sheik citizenship. They're taking bribes. This is happening right now. That's what's happening right now.
stoddard thorsen		 Bribing members of Congress are you out of your fucking mind?
richie dimaso		Stoddard. Stoddard! Shut up! Listen! Do you know who Victor Tellegio is? Victor. Tellegio. Works for Meyer Lansky. You know who that is?
stoddard thorsen		I know who Victor Tellegio is.
richie dimaso		Resorts International! He wants ten million dollars. I have two weeks!
stoddard thorsen		You're not getting ten million dollars.
richie dimaso		 Just listen to me! You're not listening to me! I have two weeks! I have two weeks to put this thing together and I need you to get me the Sherman Suite at the Plaza Hotel. And your going to fucking do it!
stoddard thorsen		Lower your voice. You don't get to yell at me.
richie dimaso		Calm me down baby. You gotta calm me down.
edith greensly		No, no.
richie dimaso		I want to do this. You're fucking skin is glowing baby. Your skin is glowing.
edith greensly		I'm not doing this with you. We're not going to do this unless we do it for real, alright?
richie dimaso		I want to do this now!
edith greensly		That's what we agreed on so we're not going to do that alright? Alright? Where are you? You're acting all scary.
richie dimaso		 I'm in love with you. It is real now. I just said it so now's the time.
edith greensly		 You want the truth? You want real?
richie dimaso		I'm ready for real.
sydney prosser		 OK, this is real. Do you hear my voice? This is real. This is real. What you hear is real.
richie dimaso		What?
sydney prosser		This is me.
richie dimaso		What do you mean? What are you doing an accent? An American accent?
edith greensly		No. There is no English. There's only American. There is no English.
richie dimaso		What are you talking about? Stop it. You're Edith. You're Edith Greensly. I checked your records.
sydney prosser		I falsified my records back to birth. I falsified them.
richie dimaso		You're -- freaking -- me -- out. No, you said in the stall that we were going to be real and that we weren't going to fake it.
sydney prosser		I'm being real now. This is who I am. I'm Sydney Prosser. Ok?
richie dimaso		So -- why -- did you do an English accent after that?
sydney prosser		I'm sorry I didn't tell you in the stall. 
richie dimaso		 Please don't talk about that. I'm confused. I'm confused and --
sydney prosser		I'm fucking confused too, alright?
richie dimaso		-- I think we should fuck, and then we'll feel it and we won't be confused anymore.
sydney prosser		No -- I want to talk. I don't want to fuck.
richie dimaso		 Yes! Come on.
sydney prosser		NO! I'm not fucking you. I'm not fucking fucking you!
richie dimaso		AHHH!
irving rosenfeld		Will you please step away from Edith. I'm asking you nicely please step away from Edith right now.
richie dimaso		What the fuck --
irving rosenfeld		Step away from her. Please.
richie dimaso		You mean Sydney?
sydney prosser		I told him. I'm sorry. I just don't give a fuck anymore, I don't give a fuck. I don't fucking care.
richie dimaso		Irving has a gun.
irving rosenfeld		What Richie's gotten us into is worse then jail. I told you last night, don't sit down with those goons. And what? Now what? No one's getting ten million for Tellegio. It's over.
richie dimaso		I don't think so.
stoddard thorsen		 Stoddard Thorsen.
richie dimaso		 You're going to give me the Sherman Suite. The whole floor.
stoddard thorsen		That's a NO. I said no wacko.
richie dimaso		And you're going to tell me the point of that FUCKING fishing story.
stoddard thorsen		Not the way you're behaving.
richie dimaso		 What's the matter with you? Where are you right now?
stoddard thorsen		What does that make a difference?
richie dimaso		Just tell me where the fuck you are.
stoddard thorsen		The field office on 61st street.
richie dimaso		I'm coming to 61st Street. Right now.
stoddard thorsen		You're going to do what?
richie dimaso		To beat -- your ass.
stoddard thorsen		You're going to what?  Richie SLAMS the phone down, storms out the apartment.
irving rosenfeld		You were right. We should have gone away.
sydney prosser		We were supposed to do it from the feet up like you always said. That's how we were meant to do it but you didn't do it like that. You didn't do it like that. You played it safe so there was always a danger you were going to end up with Rosalyn in the dead space, floating on some dead spaceship with the furniture and the curtains. And I was your life line out and you were mine and that was ok.
irving rosenfeld		 I wish I could get you back.
sydney prosser		Like I said. You never said that. I said that. We gotta get over on all these guys. That's what we need to be thinking about right now.
irving rosenfeld		That's big. That's crazy. Whatever it is, it's got to be the best we've ever done.  Sydney nods her head yes, stares intensely at Irving as the camera tilts down to reveal: their hands clasped together.
stoddard thorsen		 Agent Dimaso called me late at night on the 21st. I believe that he was intoxicated. He threatened me and I told him this was inappropriate. I told him procedures exist for reasons we must respect. This is the third such call I received from Agent Dimaso. He called me again the night of the 5th and he threatened to kill me. Subsequently he demanded that I allow him to use the Sherman Suite at the Plaza hotel for purposes of bribing members of congress.
richie dimaso		I am so sorry.
stoddard thorsen		I'm not finished. There's a lot more.
richie dimaso		I have nothing but the utmost respect for you as my mentor.  and as my --
stoddard thorsen		 What are you doing?
richie dimaso		I just want to talk from my heart. I don't want it on record. I want to get vulnerable.
stoddard thorsen		Can I finish? Can I finish my statement?
richie dimaso		Of course. I respect you.
stoddard thorsen		I think you do other things besides respect me.
richie dimaso		It's just hard for me to control my passion. I'm a very passionate person.  You're from New York. You understand this. He goes ice fishing in the midwest.
stoddard thorsen		That was told to you in confidence.
richie dimaso		He's an ice fishing guy. Look at him.
richie dimaso		What are you doing pulling out your gun? Stop it. That's not you.
stoddard thorsen		No, it's me. This is me. It's me.
richie dimaso		Don't do something that you don't know anything about. Alright?
stoddard thorsen		DO NOT LOAD THAT GUN. YOU DROP THAT GUN.
richie dimaso		I'll show you how it's done. I'm not even going to hit you.
anthony amado		So, you want to use the Sherman Suite? The entire floor?
stoddard thorsen		OH GOD.
richie dimaso		Yes! At the Plaza Hotel.
anthony amado		What happened to the Mafia? I thought you were --
richie dimaso		This is where they intersect! This is where the two things intersect. The Politicians and the Mafia. Victor Tellegio's people who run resorts international --
anthony amado		Victor Tellegio showed his face?
richie dimaso		Yes. I sat with him. I sat with Victor Tellegio. I hung out with him. We can get him. We can get his whole organization as well as getting any number of congressmen. I mean, that's just peeling the first layer of the onion.
anthony amado		Wow. How you going to do that?
richie dimaso		We would get ten million dollars and put it into an account --
stoddard thorsen		TEN MILLION DOLLARS?! Ten Million dollars?
richie dimaso		And that's how we just let them know we're for real.
anthony amado		What does he say he's gonna do for the ten million dollars? How are we trapping him?
richie dimaso		He promises to build casinos, handle the skims, do the licencing - -
stoddard thorsen		And you have him on tape saying this. You have that right? No.
anthony amado		 I want you to find a safer way to get Victor Tellegio on a wire. No ten million dollars -- that's crazy.
stoddard thorsen		Thank you.
anthony amado		Even to entrap Tellegio it's crazy. But you can have the Sherman Suite - -
stoddard thorsen		NO.
anthony amado		--Stoddard, please -- To go and get me some congressmen. Go get some congressmen taking bribes. I want to pinch us some congressmen, ok? You come back to me. I'm proud of you.
richie dimaso		Thank you.  And Stoddard.
stoddard thorsen		 Good luck keeping your job, by the way, and staying out of jail -- and not being killed by the Mob. But other than that you're doing a great job.
richie dimaso		 What's the end of the ice fishing story?
stoddard thorsen		I'm not telling you the end of the ice fishing story.
richie dimaso		I'm going to call your fucking brother and find out from him.
stoddard thorsen		My brother's dead.
richie dimaso		That's how it ends. He fell through the fucking ice.
stoddard thorsen		 No it's not. He died a different way, many years later.
richie dimaso		Listen I know it's awkward and I just want to say I'm sorry, alright? I think we can stick together and still fulfill our goal. I mean, we got the Sherman Suite.
irving rosenfeld		You got the whole floor?
richie dimaso		We got the whole floor, yeah.
edith greensly		That's good.
richie dimaso		Yeah, you ok?
sydney prosser		Yeah. You?
richie dimaso		It's alright. I got hit a little bit. My eye. It's a little blurry but I got drops at the pharmacy.
irving rosenfeld		Yeah, I'm good --
richie dimaso		Listen, I'm sorry.
sydney prosser		I'm sorry.
richie dimaso		 I'm sorry Irving.
richie dimaso		You can put a camera here. And we get it all on film. You like it?
edith greensly		I do.
irving rosenfeld		That's right. That's the idea.
melora		Congressman O'Connell is on the phone --
carmine polito		I got to take this you guys everyone out please.
dolly polito		This is sad. It's just sad.
carmine polito		Dolly please, I gotta take this.
dolly polito		Ok, sorry. Everyone out. Go out.
carmine polito		 Congressman, how you doing? It's Carmine. Tell me you're gonna be in Trenton this week. We have an amazing investment opportunity I'd like to discuss with you.
richie dimaso		I'm federal agent Richard Dimaso. I've placed seventy-five thousand dollars into this briefcase for Representative John O'Connell of the Ninth District.
carmine polito		Congressman, thank you for coming by, John --
carmine polito		You wanna talk jobs, investment, construction, if we can expedite a very wealthy man's citizenship --
richie dimaso		How you doing congressmen?
carmine polito		This brings the state back. I mean, how long we known each other? 
irving rosenfeld		Hotels. Restaurants. It's waiting to happen. Carmine sees it, this fucking thing is waiting to happen.
carmine polito		The goddamn bankers. Keeping their money on the sidelines. How we supposed to get anything done?
richie dimaso		The only problem is this citizenship situation. I mean, we got to expedite it as soon as possible.
carmine polito		Hey, this is going to happen.
richie dimaso		 I'm federal agent Richard Dimaso. I am placing 75 thousand dollars in this brief case for one Representative Gerald Sanders of the 3rd district.
carmine polito		Please Gerry. Use it as a campaign donation. Whatever you want to do.
richie dimaso		 I'm placing g $60,000 into an this brief case for one Congressman Eric Keshoygan of the 4th district --
eric keshoygan		I'm going to do what I can to help Carmine.
richie dimaso		A $100,000 into this briefcase for two term United States Senator Horton Mitchell of New Jersey.
horton mitchell		Atlantic City. All the way down the shore. A mecca by the sea.
carmine polito		One small thing we do for this man is a huge thing we do for the people of New Jersey. This is what we can leave behind.
richie dimaso		Where you going?
irving rosenfeld		 I just gotta go see a man about a dog.
carmine polito		 I appreciate this. On my family. On my kids. This needs to happen. It's gotta happen. You've got my word
irving rosenfeld		 I want to save us. I want to save Carmine. It's fucking killing me.
sydney prosser		You know the only way to help Carmine is through the Tellegio thing.
irving rosenfeld		It's dangerous. We gotta get a wire in there. We gotta make him feel safe.
sydney prosser		There's only one thing that can really fuck this up and that's your wife.
irving rosenfeld		 Yep.
pete musane		I don't like your husband. You're no good together. He doesn't appreciate you. Hey, it happens. It happened in my marriage. That's why I went to Miami. Sometimes you just gotta be tough. You gotta stand up and you gotta leave, you know?
rosalyn rosenfeld		I know. I mean, I don't want to badmouth my husband, but let me badmouth my husband for a second. He just thinks that he knows everything and he's so full of shit. He's such a liar. He thinks that I'm stupid, but I'm not stupid. I hear him on the phone arguing. He loves Carmine, but he hates that other guy, that curly- headed I.R.S. guy, or whatever who's carting around my husband's ex-lover, that redheaded whore.
pete musane		IRS?
rosalyn rosenfeld		Anyway. You can see that it drives him crazy.
pete musane		You said IRS. What IRS guy? What are you talking bout?
rosalyn rosenfeld		I hear them on the phone. I think that he's got Irv in some sort of bind or something and he's making him do all of this stuff and so Irv and Carmine right now are at the Plaza Hotel throwing away all this money at like Congress or whatever. They're giving money to congress or something. I don't really know but I overheard it on the phone.
pete musane		You know I hate to do this to you but I have to go talk to your husband. My boss is already angry. You stay here I'm going to give you some money for a taxi home.
rosalyn rosenfeld		 I don't like change. It's really hard for me. Sometimes I think that I'll die before I change.
pete musane		It's gonna be okay. You're gonna come live with me in Miami.
rosalyn rosenfeld		164             Don't hurt him too bad. He's still                    164 Danny's father.
rosalyn rosenfeld		Life is ridiculous and I would never say anything bad about your father in front of you but your father is a sick son of a bitch.
danny		Daddy's a sick son of a bitch?
rosalyn rosenfeld		Don't repeat that. But yes.
pete musane		What's this I hear about your curly haired friend working for the Government?
carmine polito		What?! Who said that?
irving rosenfeld		That's bullshit!
pete musane		Your wife.
irving rosenfeld		That's bullshit.
carmine polito		Rosalyn?
irving rosenfeld		 HE PUT A CANVAS BAG OVER MY HEAD!
carmine polito		Hey, what the fuck?! --
pete musane		Shut up. Shut the fuck up.
irving rosenfeld		ARE YOU HAPPY NOW? BECAUSE HE IS TRYING TO KILL ME!
rosalyn		What are you talking about?!
irving rosenfeld		WHAT ARE YOU DOING? WHAT DO YOU THINK YOU'RE DOING?
rosalyn rosenfeld		Get out of here! I'm not doing anything!
irving rosenfeld		WHY ARE YOU TALKING SO MUCH? YOU'RE GOING TO GET US ALL KILLED!
rosalyn rosenfeld		You're a real sick son of a bitch for screaming at me like that in front of Danny.
irving rosenfeld		I'M A SICK SON OF A BITCH? YOU'RE TRYING TO GET ME FUCKING KILLED. OH MY GOD!! YOU DRIVE ME SO FUCKING CRAZY. WHAT ARE YOU DOING?! YOU'RE BOYFRIEND -- YOUR FUCKING BOYFRIEND WILL KILL ME, HE'LL KILL DANNY, AND HE'LL KILL YOU.
rosalyn rosenfeld		STOP TALKING LIKE THAT!
irving rosenfeld		He's a mobster alright? That's who you're dealing with.
rosalyn rosenfeld		Alright fine! Yes, I wanted to hurt you but how do you think that I feel all day when you leave me alone all day? And all I've ever wanted is for you to love me. That's all I ever wanted. And stay married and for you to love me. And that's why I'm going to Miami!
irving rosenfeld		You're NOT going to Miami.
rosalyn rosenfeld		That's why I'm going to Miami with Pete!
irving rosenfeld		You are NOT going to Miami.
rosalyn rosenfeld		I finally found somebody who loves me just like YOU always wanted.
irving rosenfeld		Too dangerous. Miami? Not now. Too dangerous.
rosalyn rosenfeld		He likes me just the way I am.
irving rosenfeld		Not now. Everything has to stay normal right now. And you're going to shut your mouth!
rosalyn rosenfeld		You told me that you wanted me to find a nice quiet man!
irving rosenfeld		Oh and what a DOOZY you picked!
rosalyn rosenfeld		He's the one.
irving rosenfeld		He's the most dangerous guy ever.
rosalyn rosenfeld		WELL WHAT DO YOU EXPECT IRVING?! I KNOW EVERYBODY THROUGH YOU! WHY CAN'T YOU JUST BE HAPPY FOR ME?!
irving rosenfeld		 I've got a plan.
rosalyn rosenfeld		What's happening?
irving rosenfeld		I've got a plan.
rosalyn rosenfeld		You've got a plan? When did you get it?
irving rosenfeld		It really fucking came to me when I was inside of that canvas bag with your boyfriend's hands around my throat. That's when it really came to me.
carmine polito		Take it off! Take the bag off his head!
irving rosenfeld		We've got two million coming this week!
pete musane		What do you think this is? You think this is a fucking down payment plan? Like were Sears of Chevrolet?
irving rosenfeld		You ask Victor if he wants two million this week. That's real money. Two million.
pete musane		Two million? How?
irving rosenfeld		Wired in.
carmine polito		Is it true? Is it true what he said about your wife?
irving rosenfeld		It's not fucking true. That's not true.
irving rosenfeld		I can save all of us, and we can save money. I can take care of you and Danny. OK? But you gotta close your mouth.
rosalyn rosenfeld		I knew it. I have always said, Irving, that you are very, very hard to motivate properly. And I knew that Pete was gonna go over there and knock some sense into you. I've been reading this book, Irving. It's by Wayne Dyer, about the power of intention.
irving rosenfeld		OK. Thank you, Rosalyn. Thank you for the plan.
rosalyn rosenfeld		You're welcome.
irving rosenfeld		I appreciate that. So, I think that we should be partners on this.
rosalyn rosenfeld		I'm a good partner. Almost better than Edith. You ever think about that? You ever think about how you might have underestimated me?
irving rosenfeld		So what is our plan? Tell me the plan. What are you gonna do?
rosalyn rosenfeld		I'm going to keep my mouth shut and I'm not going to say anything but what do I do if Pete calls me? What am I supposed to say?
irving rosenfeld		You gotta stop talking about your government agencies and your I.R.S. and your tax and your conspiracies and all of that. You're gonna say how you were wrong, you were wrong about that.
rosalyn rosenfeld		I'll tell Pete that I was wrong but you know that in real life, I was right for saying all that stuff because then that spurred on the actions that made you come up with this plan. So I will tell Pete.
irving rosenfeld		 OK.
rosalyn rosenfeld		 The power of intention Irving. The power of intention.
irving rosenfeld		OK. You were right.
rosalyn rosenfeld		Irving, I've been doing a lot of thinking and -- you need to grow up. And you need to face the facts. And I think that both of us will be a lot happier if we get a divorce.
irving rosenfeld		OK.
rosalyn rosenfeld		Just think about it.  These things are never easy.
irving rosenfeld		Alright.
rosalyn rosenfeld		Irving. Good luck with your plan.
alfonse simone		Alfonse Simone.
edith greensly		Edith Greensly.
irving rosenfeld		Irving Rosenfeld.
richie dimaso		Good afternoon.
alfonse simone		Please, be seated.
richie dimaso		Where is Mr. Tellegio?
alfonse simone		Mr. Tellegio unfortunately was called out of town on business.
richie dimaso		That's not good. We were willing to come here today, in person, to see Mr. Tellegio, as a sign of respect to give two million dollars --
alfonse simone		I can assure you that I have the power of attorney --
richie dimaso		Excuse me. If you'll let me finish, we are willing to give two million dollars today of the ten. But without Mr. Tellegio here --
irving rosenfeld		 We can't, we can't make that decision. It's not the right thing. It's not the right time. It's just not good.
edith greensly		 You don't have the authorization to make this kind of choice so don't be hasty, alright?
irving rosenfeld		I'm not being hasty. It's just, let's be smart about it. This is not how we do business.  I'm sorry. I apologize.
richie dimaso		He's right, we can't.
edith greensly		I think you should hang in there.
richie dimaso		For what? The guy's not here.
irving rosenfeld		He isn't.
richie dimaso		That's it.
irving rosenfeld		This is a surprise. The Sheik doesn't like surprises.
edith greensly		Don't leave.
irving rosenfeld		 Edith, this is not your decision to make.
edith greensly		I understand but maybe we can call the Sheik. Let's call the Sheik.
irving rosenfeld		That's not the plan. That's not the --
richie dimaso		No, let's -- I'll call the Sheik.  Can I use your phone?
alfonse simone		Please do.
richie dimaso		 I don't know if he's in, I'll call the Sheik. But before I do, I'd like to go over specifically what this money will be used for.
alfonse simone		What we will do is we guarantee all proper licenses and construction permits for any hotel casino that plans to open before the end of the year.
richie dimaso		What if there are obstacles, what will you do?
alfonse simone		Obstacles? We are prepared to overcome any obstacles.
richie dimaso		This is a big enterprise.
alfonse simone		If we have to pay somebody off, we'll pay somebody off. If we have to lean on somebody, intimidate somebody, we'll intimidate somebody. We're experienced. This is our business.
richie dimaso		That's powerful stuff. Thank you.
alfonse simone		And I'll tell you something else. At the end of this we'll teach you how to skim and how to cut it up and make some money on the side. Because we invented skimming. We've been doing it for thirty years.
richie dimaso		Thank you. Thank you for clarifying that.
anthony amado		This is the Sheik.
richie dimaso		 Mr. Tellegio is not here. It's just Mr. Alfonse Simone, his lawyer. Are we still ok to wire the money?
alfonse simone		Simone can take the money. What's the number?
richie dimaso		5317AP
brenda		The funds have been transferred.
anthony amado		 The funds have been transferred.
richie dimaso		The money's been wired.
alfonse simone		I think we have a deal.
richie dimaso		Yes we do sir.
alfonse simone		Pleasure doing business with you.
richie dimaso		Okay, well, thank you very much, Mr. Simone.
alfonse simone		I'm sure that we'll be seeing each other.
richie dimaso		 Oh I'm sure we'll be seeing each other very soon. You may even get sick of me, like these two.
alfonse simone		I don't think I'll get sick of you. Nice meeting you.
richie dimaso		FINALLY! FINALLY WE GET SOME RESPECT!
anthony amado		 We're ambitious, that's why!
richie dimaso		Shh, shh, shh!
richie dimaso		 -- If we have to lean on somebody, intimate somebody, we'll intimidate somebody!!
irving rosenfeld		I gotta do it.
carmine polito		What do you mean, there's no sheik? What does that mean, "there's no sheik"? What does that mean?
irving rosenfeld		I want to face you like a man because I want to be real now.
carmine polito		Who is "they"?
irving rosenfeld		It's the Feds.
carmine polito		The Feds?
irving rosenfeld		Yeah.
carmine polito		Irving -- I'm a good person
irving rosenfeld		You are!
carmine polito		I've been doing this for a long time, for twenty years. Do you think I woulda taken that money if it wasn't the right thing to do?
irving rosenfeld		Hey look, you're a good person I know that but in all honesty --
carmine polito		 You said that was the only way, Irv. You chased me, remember?
irving rosenfeld		They fuckin' made me do it. What was I supposed to do? They had Syd in jail.
carmine polito		You made me go back to the Plaza to take that money, you piece of shit! I was gone! You fucking prick!
dolly polito		Is everything alright? Can I have a word with you?
carmine polito		 No, please, Dolly, just go upstairs. Take the kids and go upstairs!
dolly polito		Alright, alright.
irving rosenfeld		I want to make this right. I came here because I want to make it right.
carmine polito		Look at my face. You tell me that I'm lying to you when I say that everything I do is for the good of the people of New Jersey. Everything I do is for them. Am I lying to you?
irving rosenfeld		I never had a friend like you before.
carmine polito		I used that money for the goddamn casino.
irving rosenfeld		I got some leverage, alright? I can help you out.
carmine polito		This is all shit. It's all bullshit.
irving rosenfeld		Carmine, Syd and I got a plan for you. We can help you out.
carmine polito		Please get out of my house, Irving. Will you please leave? I'm asking you nicely, please leave.
dolly polito		Get out of our house!
irving rosenfeld		I don't want to --  I'm sorry. I didn't mean for this to happen.
carmine polito		 This is not our friend!
irving rosenfeld		Truly, I didn't mean for this to happen.
carmine polito		This is what matters to me most and you're crushing it! You're going to take me away from them you fucking son of a bitch? Get the fuck out!
irving rosenfeld		 I just want to make it right.
carmine polito		Get out of my house. Look what you made me do!
irving rosenfeld		 I'm sorry Carmine, I'm sorry.
sydney prosser		Irving!
irving rosenfeld		I've got to lay down.
sydney prosser		Just rest.  She gets in and closes the door.
sydney prosser		 Are you ready?
irving rosenfeld		Yes.
anthony amado		Please. Come in. Sit down.
irving rosenfeld		Two million?  It's with Victor Tellegio and Alfonse Simone.
anthony amado		No, actually it's not with Victor Tellegio or Alfonse Simone.
richie dimaso		He fucking knows about it.
anthony amado		It's gone missing. Did you know that?
irving rosenfeld		Where's it gone?
anthony amado		That's interesting that you said that because while you were on your way over here, we got an anonymous phone call from someone who said that in exchange for immunity for the two of you and a reduced sentence for Carmine Polito we get our two million dollars back.
irving rosenfeld		That's interesting. That's very interesting. I have no idea.
anthony amado		No idea?
irving rosenfeld		No idea what you're talking about.
anthony amado		I got it. I understand how these deals are made. See, someone has leverage.
richie dimaso		Anthony, fuck them. It's over. We got them for wire fraud, it's over.  You're done. You're both done.
irving rosenfeld		I don't think so.
richie dimaso		Oh, you don't think so?
irving rosenfeld		Richard, think about it, YOU requested the two million. And you gave Brenda the account number. We didn't do any of that. None of it.  How do we know that YOU don't have the money?
richie dimaso		 Am I living in a fucking nightmare right now?
irving rosenfeld		I find this a little offensive. Really, I find this a little offensive and I don't see that you got any sort of solid case against--
richie dimaso		 Don't let him get in your heads. Listen to me, we're dealing with a very clever individual.
irving rosenfeld		Richard, think about it. You got some big arrests. You got U.S. Congressmen. You look good. You're gonna be all over the news. You know what doesn't look good? A story about gross incompetence
richie dimaso		I have a warrant for --
sydney prosser		You lost two million dollars of taxpayer money because you were confused about the location and the identity of Victor Tellegio's attorney?
ed malone		Alfonse Simone.
edith greensly		People believe what they want to believe Richie.
richie dimaso		That's because you conned me! You both fucking conned me. You both got under me. You did!
irving rosenfeld		Well that doesn't sound so good, either. I mean -- and I don't know what you're talking about, but -- let's just assume you want to go with that story. Really? That's the story you want to go with? That's what you want the New York Times to hear? That you got conned by the very con men who you forced to entrap the members of Congress in the first place. That's what you want to go with? That doesn't sound so good for your whole thing.
richie dimaso		That's what I was trying to go after.
irving rosenfeld		I'm sorry to tell you, you got none of 'em.
stoddard thorsen		You know, Richard, I think we may call you as a witness, but otherwise you're done. I think you better go home.
richie dimaso		Stoddard --
stoddard thorsen		Go on home, Richard.
rosalyn rosenfeld		The car is a little dinged up and I'm a little stiff but I don't want to talk about it.
pete musane		 You know my boss knows you did him a solid.
irving rosenfeld		Yes I did. He never took a nickle so they can't get him for nothing. I was never going to let that happen.
rosalyn rosenfeld		Irv.
****Dialogues from script :american_madness.txt****

****Dialogues from script :american_outlaws.txt****

****Dialogues from script :american_pie.txt****

jim		Oh yeah, baby, I'll give it to you.
jim		I do, baby, I do.
jim		Yeah, that's right.
jim		Man, shut up!
jim's mom		Hey, Jimmy.  I just wanted to say sweet dreams.
jim		Yep, okay Mom, 'night.
jim's mom		 Kiss goodnight.
jim		Yeah.  Damn cable.  There's this nature show that I'm trying to watch.
jim		Uh...
jim		 Must...be...broken...
jim's dad		What the heck is this?
jim		Nothing!
jim's mom		I think he's trying to watch one of the illegal channels.
jim		Jesus, Mom!  They're not illegal! They're pay channels.  How could a television channel be illegal?!  God, get a clue!
jim's dad		James, don't speak that way to your mother!
jim's dad		Turn that garbage off!  Give me that!
jim's mom		Oh my God!
jim's dad		Honey, why don't you let me handle this one.
kevin		It's a big, thick envelope, Vicky. You got in.
vicky		You think so?
kevin		"Dear Ms. Hughes.  We're sorry, but after keeping you on the wait list for the past couple months, we've decided you are now rejected.  Enclosed is a 100-page, full-color brochure on how rejected you are."
vicky		Kevin, this is serious!
kevin		You got in.
vicky		I love you!
oz		Illegal channels?  Shit, if there's any channel that should be illegal, it's whatever that women's channel is. Lifetime Supply of Pantyhose, or some shit.
jim		Yeah -- hey, did you see The Little Mermaid on TV the other night?  That Ariel, whew.
oz		She's a mermaid, dude.
jim		 Yeah, Oz, but not when she's on land.
oz		She's a cartoon, dude.
jim		A hot cartoon.
oz		Is there anything you don't jerk off to?
jim		C-Span?
kevin		Then she said -- she loves me.
oz		Oh shit dude, the L-word!
jim		And you said...
kevin		Nothing, I just hugged her back.
jim		You think she was serious?
kevin		I couldn't tell -- She could've meant like, "I love you grandma" or "I love you Vanderbilt."
oz		Just don't bring it up, hang low, maybe she won't mention it again.
michelle		And what we should do today, in band? Instead of playing our instruments regularly?  We should play them backwards!  That'll be so funny!
oz		 You guys got the Latin homework?
jim		No -- Kevin, you?
kevin		 We're all golden, we're college bound. I figured it out -- I can get a c- minus in every class, and it's not gonna make a difference.  U of M, here I come.
vicky		Vanderbilt's not that far from U of M.
jessica		Yeah right.
vicky		What?  We both have cars.
jessica		Yeah but, no offense, you're talking about a post-high school, long- distance relationship, and you and Kevin haven't even done it yet.
vicky		That's not why we're going out.
jessica		What the hell are you expecting him to drive to Vanderbilt for?  Milk and cookies?
vicky		Jessica!  He'll drive there for me, and I'll drive to Ann Arbor for him. We're going to have sex when he's ready and I'm ready.  It's got to be completely perfect.  I want the right place, the right time, the right moment.
jessica		Vicky, it's not a space shuttle launch, it's sex.  So did you do the physics write-up?
vicky		 Please.
jim		There's our man.
kevin		Finch, you got the Latin homework?
finch		Non habeo.  Canis meus id comedit.
kevin		Whatever.
stifler		 NOVA!!
oz		Stifler!!
stifler		You coming to party tonight, Ostreicher, ya fuckface?
oz		Depends if my date wants to stop by.
stifler		That junior chick?
oz		Nah, gave her the Heisman.  I'm working on something new.
stifler		Yeah right.  I got an idea for something new.  How 'bout you guys actually locate your dicks, remove the shrink wrap, and fuckin' use 'em.
oz		Dude, it's gotta happen -- she's a college chick!
stifler		Bullshit.  From where?
oz		She works part-time at my dad's store.
stifler		Hah!  Yeah, Oz, I bet it's more like your dad works at her store.
oz		Dude, he does not.
kevin		Really, Stifler.  He's the manager.
stifler		Hey, man, I'm not making fun.  I'm fuckin' impressed.  I mean, "Footlong or six-inch, white or wheat," that's some serious shit to master.
kevin		 Stifler, you're such an asshole.
stifler		Meyers, what's the deal with you and Vicky, anyway?  You've been going out since Homecoming and all she'll do is blow you?  Shit, I'd drop her like a steaming turd.
finch		Do you commonly grasp warm pieces of stool?
stifler		 Alright then, see you guys tonight. I'll look for you in the No Fucking section.
kevin's brother		You called me to ask me how to get laid?
kevin		What was I gonna do, call dad?  I don't even know his number.
kevin's brother		Just dial 976-Asshole.
kevin		Yeah, well anyway...I thought you might have some advice, brother to brother.  I mean, I think tonight she might, we might really, there's a chance that -- you know.
kevin's brother		Have you ever heard of the bible?
kevin		What?  Not the Bible?
kevin's brother		Well, that's not really the name, but we always called it that.
kevin		Does it tell me how to get laid?
kevin's brother		You know what, nevermind.  You're not ready.
kevin		Ready for what?
kevin's brother		Whoop, you're fading out.  Good luck at that party.
kevin		You ever hear of something called The Bible?
oz		Once, in church, dude.
jim		Ooh, here's an easy one:  "Attractive SWF, fun loving and a youthful mind seeks outgoing companion." Okay..."Attractive"...ugly.
oz		"Fun loving" -- insane.
kevin		Unlisted age, plus "youthful mind," equals old.
jim		No, "Charming" is old.  "Older" is really old.  "Youthful mind" is dead.
finch		Perhaps you should consider actually answering an ad.
jim		Finch, you can be the one to date a nearly-dead insane chick.  Eat your damn imitation hot dog.
finch		 This is no imitation.  Removing the hot dog from the Ultradog yields a better dog.  Behold -- Ultradog, no dog.
kevin		 Alright...I'm shooting for a nine o'clock ETA.  Beer in hand by five after.
jim		You can crash at Stifler's?
kevin		It's all good.  Breath check.
oz		 Dude, I wish you wouldn't do that.
kevin		You got something up your sleeve for tonight, Finch?
finch		A foolproof plan, my friend.  You shall see.
oz		 And little hurly-burly came by in her curly-wurly, and asked me if I needed I ri-hide --
kevin		How the hell do you know all these random songs?
oz		It's early Springsteen, dude, this is classic.  This was before the cheesy remake.
jim		This was remade?  Into what?
oz		 Bli-hinded by the light -- cut loose like a deuce, another runner in the night, blinded...
kevin		At least now I know what the hell they're saying.
jim		So, does my hair look better --  like this?
oz		Who cares?
jim		Nadia does, that Czechoslovakian chick, she might be there tonight. Now, do you think she'd prefer --  or Laid Back Jim?
kevin		The difference is so phenomenal, I can't decide.
jim		What about you?  You're the one with the girlfriend and you're still stranded on third base.
kevin		You know, I've never got that shit. What exactly constitutes third base?
oz		 Contact, dude.
kevin		Then where does a blowjob figure in?
oz		Shortstop.  'Course, you don't make it to third, and you're out.
jim		So let's say you get there...what's uh, third base feel like?
kevin		Oh, man, that's kind of sad.
oz		Feels like warm apple pie, dude.
jim		Apple pie...  McDonald's or homemade?
finch		Gentlemen, see you at the Bacchanalia.
sherman		What's up, fellas?
jim		Hey Sherman.  Scopin' the babes.
sherman		Indeed.  Some fine ladies here, boys. Confidence is high, repeat, confidence is high. Sherman is moving to DefCon Two, full strategic arsenal ready for deployment.
jim		You've got something going?
sherman		Did you see that Central chick? Brunette?
sherman		She's around.  Seems that she's taken a liking to me.  Fellas, it's time that she experienced -- The Sherminator.
kevin		Yeah, okay Sherman, whatever.
sherman		I'm a sophisticated sex robot, sent back through time...to change the future for one lucky lady.
kevin		Yeah man, right on!
jim		Oh, shit!  There she is.  Nadia.
vicky		You like her?  Her sponsor family lives on my block.  Why don't you talk to her?
jim		What would I say?
vicky		Just tell her what's on your mind. And smile, you've got a good smile.  Come on.
kevin		 Gotta go.
jim		But --
nadia		 You are in my English class, no?
jim		 Yes.
nadia		I thought so.
jim		No...you...go...ahead.
nadia		Okay.
jim		Oh, shit.  No!  Shit!
michelle		We're here for the party?
stifler		What party?  There's no party.
stifler		Try the house down the street.
band dork		Ring the bell again.
michelle		Ringing the bell is dorky -- let's just go in.
vicky		Oh, Kev.
kevin		Vicky -- do you think, maybe...it's time for us to take the next step in our relationship?
vicky		Tonight?
kevin		Yeah, it's such a perfect evening. Isn't this how you've always pictured it?
kevin		Or not.
vicky		Just relax.
oz		Great evening, isn't it?
college chick		Sure.
oz		There's something about the spring that's just cool.  Like the smell of fresh rain or something.
college chick		What did you just say?
oz		 Suck me...beautiful?
college chick		What?!
oz		Uh...you know, my friends call me Nova -- as in Casanova.
college chick		You need some work, buddy!
oz		Well...jeez, don't laugh at me.
college chick		Look, Chris.  There are just some things you need to learn, that's all.
oz		Like what?
college chick		Alright, well...you've got to tone it down.  You don't need to go to Lookout Point and spout cheeseball lines to be romantic.
oz		...okay...
college chick		You have to pay attention to a girl. Be sensitive to her feelings. Relationships are reciprocal.
oz		I'm not good in math.
college chick		Come on, I'll drop you off at your friends'.
stifler		 You actually said that?!  Haaaah!!
oz		Shut the fuck up.
jim		Hey, you did better than I did, Nova.
oz		Oh that's really reassuring.  And don't call me Nova anymore.  I'm a fraud.
stifler		This is pathetic.  I'm gonna find me a little hottie.
vicky		 Let me know.
kevin		Okay, don't stop.
stifler		SUCK ME, BEAUTIFUL!
kevin		God dammit, Stifler!
stifler		Check-out time!  Please vacate the room.
vicky		Stifler, you're such a jerk.
kevin		Vicky, wait!
sophomore chick		God, I can't believe there are so many cool people at this party.
stifler		Yep.
sophomore		And you got a keg, too, wow.  Oh, wait, I left my beer downstairs.
stifler		Here, babe.
sophomore chick		Thanks.
stifler		 You're really beautiful.
sophomore chick		Really?
stifler		Uh huh.
sophomore chick		I don't know if I want to be doing this.
stifler		 Doing what?
sophomore chick		You know.  If we hook up, tomorrow I'll just be some girl you go telling all your friends about.
stifler		 No way.
sophomore chick		 Steve!  You could at least look at me when you say that.
stifler		Look...  ...Sarah.  I wouldn't go telling stories or whatever about you.  I promise.
jim		What the hell?  I should be able to talk to chicks.  I'm articulate.  I got a 720 on my SAT verbal.  Copious.  Verisimilitude.
jim		Jesus, what did you eat?
kevin		Stifler, how's the man chowder?!
vicky		He likes it.
jessica		Of course he does.  What about you? Have you just never had one with Kevin -- or have you never had one, period?
vicky		I think I've had one.
jessica		Well that's a no.  No wonder you're not psyched about sex.  You've never even had one manually?
vicky		...I've never tried it.
jessica		Are you kidding?  You've never double- clicked your mouse?
nadia		 You are right.  The hands are not always necessary.
jessica		 See?
nadia		In fact -- I should teach you my own special method.  I developed it myself at the ballet institute in Prague. You use nothing but the muscles of the inner thigh.
jessica		No wonder she never pays attention in class.
jim		Shit, I can't believe a fine woman like this produced a guy like Stifler.
freshman guy		Dude!  That chick -- is a MILF!
freshman guy		M-I-L-F!  Mom I'd Like to Fuck!
sherman		 Don't you think you fellas could try a little tact?  I've got company.  Know what I mean?
kevin		 Dammit!  If Sherman has sex before I do, I'm gonna be really fucking pissed.
kevin		Man, I just gotta get laid already! This blowjob thing is bullshit!
vicky		Jessica, can you drive me home?
jessica		Sure.
kevin		Vicky, wait.
vicky		Not for you.
kevin		Ow, what the hell?
jim		Sorry, I thought you were dead.
finch		Good morning gentleman.
jim		Finch!  Where were you last night? What happened to the foolproof plan?
finch		I thought a fashionably late entrance would enhance my appearance.  When I got here, the Bacchanalia was over and the nymphs had left.
kevin		Feeling better, Oz?
oz		I'm such a loser.
kevin		That's the spirit.
sherman		 ...I'll never forget...thank you.
central girl		Bye.
jim		You did it.
sherman		Fellas, say goodbye to Chuck Sherman, the boy.  I am now a man.
kevin		I -- I don't get it, how the hell did you do that?
sherman		It was just my time, fellas, it was just my time.  Best of luck to you, boys.
kevin		I put in months of quality time with Vicky.  Sherman meets a chick for one night and scores?  This is just wrong.
oz		No shit, I'm never gonna get laid. How the hell am I gonna become this Mr. Sensitive Man?
jim		Jesus, we're all gonna go to college as virgins.  They've probably got special dorms for people like us.
kevin		Alright, I got an idea.  But it stays between us.  Agreed?
jim		Like a bet?
kevin		No, a pact.  No money involved.  This is more important than any bet.  Now here's the deal: We all get laid before we graduate.
oz		Dude, it's not like I haven't been trying to get laid.
kevin		This is different.  This is better. Think of when you're working out, Oz. You need a partner, someone to spot you.  Someone to keep you motivated.
jim		Pontificated.
kevin		 Separately, we are flawed and vulnerable.  But together, we are the masters of our sexual destiny!
jim		 Their tiger-style kung-fu is strong; but our dragon style will defeat it!
oz		 The Sha-lin masters from east and west must unite!
kevin		Guys, guys -- you're ruining my fucking moment here.  Now think about it --
stifler		 What the hell are you losers doing?
finch		If I might ask, when you brush your teeth, do you spit or swallow?
kevin		Now, the sex -- it's got to be valid, consensual sex.  No funny stuff.  And no prostitutes, if you were thinking about that, Finch.
oz		Dude, prom sucks.
kevin		I know, but think about it -- At the parties that night.  Chicks are gonna want to do it.
jim		Yeah, it's like tradition or something.
kevin		Right.  That gives us...
jim		Exactly three weeks to the day.
kevin		Alright then.  It's official.  Any questions?
all		To the next step.
jim		 Just a minute!
jim's dad		 Can I come in?
jim		Yeah, sure.
jim's dad		You're not...busy?
jim		Dad, come in.
jim's dad		 Sit down, Jim.  Let's talk.
jim		Okay.
jim's dad		These are for you.  From father to son.
jim		Uh...dad...
jim's dad		Go ahead son, there's more.
jim		I know, Dad.
jim's dad		Oh, okay.  Here's let me show you.
jim		Dad!  I know!
jim's dad		Do you know about the clitoris?
jim		 Yes dad.
jim's dad		Sometimes it can be pretty hard to locate.
jim		 Thank you, dad, I got it.
jim's dad		Okay, well that about covers it.
jim		Wait!
jim's dad		 I'll have to save this speech for another day.  I'm too worn out.
kevin		Did you get the flowers?  What about the poem?
vicky		I'll think about it.
jessica		Ah, you'll get her back soon enough. That's easy, she likes you.  What you need to do is learn to press a girl's buttons.  You gotta give her what she's never had.
kevin		What?
jessica		I'll give you a hint.  Comprende?
kevin		You mean...and orgasm?
jessica		You got it, stud.
kevin		Well...I'm pretty sure I've --
jessica		 No you haven't.
kevin		But that one time --
jessica		 No.
kevin		Well of course I'd want to give her that.  I mean, what do you think, I don't care about her?
jessica		Do you?
kevin		Of course.
jessica		Do you love her?
kevin		I -- I don't know, you can't ask me that.
jessica		Well, if you want to get her in the sack, tell her you love her.  That's how I was duped.
kevin		I don't want to dupe her, Jessica.  If I say it, I have to be sure I mean it.
jessica		Well it's up to you.  The Big L, or the Big O.
stifler		Dickhead!  You gotta see this.
jim		This is unexpected.
stifler		What did you cocks do to him?  Shit, if Coach Marshall sees this, he'll kick Oz off the team on principle alone.
oz		Hey guys, you came to watch me in action?
jim		Yeah, I think you sounded pretty good.
stifler		I think you need your balls reattached.
oz		Keep it down, dude.
stifler		What the fuck are you doing here?
oz		This place is an untapped resource. Check it out, dude, these vocal jazz girls are hot.
heather		I think he's got a nice voice.
stifler		You dipshit, you're expecting to score with some goody-goody choir-girl priss?
oz		Dude, watch me work.  They go for sensitive studs like me.
kevin		This is your plan, Finch?
finch		Yep.
kevin		This.  Right now.
finch		Uh-huh.
jim		You're just gonna sit there and drink your coffee?
finch		Mochaccino.  Actually, in the spirit of the pact, I do need to ask for your cooperation in one small matter.
kevin		Of course, Finch.  What?
finch		Whatever you hear about me, you agree.
kevin		What are we gonna hear?
finch		You'll see.  Gotta go.  Sixteen minute round trip.
jim		Finch, don't you think it's about time you learned to take a dump at school?
finch		When was the last time you looked at the facilities here?
kevin		Fifteen minutes ago.
enthralled girl		Uh, guys?  Was that Paul Finch?
kevin		Yeah.
enthralled girl		You guys have like, seen him in the locker room, right?
kevin		Yeah.
enthralled girl		Is it true that he's really...huge?
jim		I have no idea.  Finch showers in a bathing suit.
kevin		 No -- it's true.  He is...really... big.
jim		 Yeah, enormous.
enthralled girl		Woah.  Does he have a date for prom yet.
jim		Definitely not.
enthralled girl		No way!
kevin		 Finch hasn't done a damn thing, and he's got girls lining up already.
kevin		Uh...I thought you might know a trick or something.  To make her, you know...
kevin's brother		Orgasm?
kevin		Yeah.
sushi customer		 What's good here?
kevin's brother		Try the spicy tuna hand roll.
kevin		What?!  How do I do that?
kevin's brother		Uh -- forget that.  Look, is that all you're interested in?  Ways to get your girlfriend into bed?
kevin		Well, no.  I think...I guess it would be good to be able to return the favor.  I mean, it would be nice to know she enjoys things as much as I do.
kevin's brother		That's good, that's what I needed to hear.  Now you qualify.
kevin		Qualify for what?
kevin's brother		You've just inherited The Bible.
jim		 Mom?!  I'm home!
jim's dad		Jim?
jim		It's not what it looks like!
jim's dad		 I guess...we'll just tell your mother...that we ate it all.
choir teacher		What the hell was that?
oz		Sorry.
choir teacher		No, it was good.
oz		Oh, well...  It came from the heart.
choir teacher		Well then keep it coming.  Alright, people, good work!  Keep it up and we'll do great at the state competition.
heather		Not bad, Chris.
oz		 Really?  Hey, thanks -- Heather, right?
heather		Yeah...so...you've got this sort of... Bobby McFerrin thing going there.
oz		 I feel like I've discovered this whole new side of me.  Music is so expressive.
heather		 I mean, I agree, but...aren't you supposed to be out, like, trying to decapitate someone with your lacrosse stick or something?
oz		Oh sure.  I know what people think. It's like, Oz, he's just this kickass lacrosse player -- I also play football, by the way -- But that's like...not all that I am.
heather		Of course, I didn't --
oz		 I mean it really bothers me when people try to pigeonhole me like that.
heather		 You?  You think I don't get that? God, it's like just because I don't get drunk and barf every weekend, people say "Oh, here's this goody-two- shoes choir-girl priss."
oz		Yeah...so like, what else do you do?
heather		 What do you think I do?
oz		 I just -- realized that I didn't know anything about you.  I was interested.
heather		Oh...well that's okay.  Cool.
kevin		I was being selfish.  And majorly insensitive.  And I'm a total idiot.
vicky		I think "shithead" really says it.
kevin		Yes!  I'm a shithead!  I'm a complete and total shithead!
vicky		How?
vicky		Oh Kevin -- don't stop!
kevin		Just a second!
vicky's mom		 Hon?  Can you tell Vick to come on down for supper?
kevin		Vicky, shhh, you know there's no lock on your door.
jim		Hey, dad.  Did you knock?
jim's dad		Oh, Jim!  I'm looking at the ol' family portrait, here.  Yep.  It's a good one.
jim		Dad, please stop.  Please.  I'm sure I know what you're talking about.
jim's dad		Sure you know, son, but I think you've been having a little problem with it. It's okay, though.  What you're doing is perfectly normal.  It's like practice.  Like when you play tennis against a wall.  Some day, there'll be a partner returning the ball.  You do want a partner, don't you son?
jim		 Yes.
jim's dad		That's great.  Now remember, it's okay to play with yourself.  Or, as I always called it --  Ho-ho, Jim.  There's nothing to be ashamed of.  Hell, I'm fifty-two, and I still enjoy masturbating.  Uncle Mort masturbates.  We all masturbate.
coach marshall		Good work, Ostreicher.
oz		Thanks coach.
coach marshall		You're a killer, Ozzy!
oz		 -- Thanks, coach --
oz		Hey, what're you doing here?
heather		Just enjoying my exhilarating first lacrosse experience.  You like, "kicked butt."
oz		 Whoops, excuse me...
heather		Um...Chris --
oz		You can call me Oz.
heather		Do I have to?
oz		You can call me Ostreicher.
heather		What's your middle name?
oz		Forget it.
heather		Come on!  I won't tell.
oz		Neither will I.
heather		Okay.  So I had this...thought, and...this may seem like it's out of left field, and I don't know if you can, but since I'm not going with anyone --
stifler		Hah!  Central sucks!  Choir Chick?  What the hell are you doing here?
heather		Well, I uh, I was --  So do you wanna go?
oz		Yeah!
stifler		Well, just don't expect Oz to pay for the limo.
oz		Stifler, fuck --  ...man, you don't have to be so insensitive.
stifler		What??  Whatever -- look uh, don't forget -- my cottage after prom.  On Lake Michigan.
oz		Alright, cool.  I gotta hit the showers, but...I think this'll be really good.
heather		Yeah, me too, okay, cool.
stifler		My man Oz, working it with the choir babes?
lacrosse buddies		 Yeah, go Oz! etc.
oz		 Hey, you know, what can I say, I dig those cute little sweaters she wears.
stifler		I'll bet you do, you little horndog, she's givin' you fuckin' stiffies, right?
teacher		So once Hal becomes king, he has to take on the responsibilities of leadership, and turn his back on his old, drunken friend, Falstaff.  You see, Hal was going through a rite of passage, much like you all are.  Make the most of the time you've got left together.  You'll miss it later.
oz		So does your tongue cramp up?
kevin		Nah, you get kind of dizzy though.
jim		Wow, that's amazing, she's probably gonna want to do it soon.
sherman		Still questing after the holy grail, eh guys?
jim		Hey, where's Finch?
kevin		Went home to shit.
jim		I don't get it.  How does a guy like that get this sudden reputation?
oz		What reputation?
kevin		Observe.
kevin		...Yes?
jim		 Actually, it's an eagle and this big python.
jim		Yeah, see it's on his stomach, here, and the eagle -- the eagle is actually grasping the python in its talons, so the snake is like his --
kevin		 That's good, Jim.
oz		Okay, explain.
kevin		I can't, I have no idea how he's doing it.  And that leaves you trailing, Jim.  You gotta get your act together.
jim		 Yeah, I know.  I'm working on it.
nadia		You are very good in the world history class, yes?
jim		 Me?
nadia		Perhaps you can help me with my studies?
jim		Okay...that would be cool sometime.  How 'bout tomorrow?
nadia		Well, I do have ballet practice. Perhaps I can come by your house afterwards.  I can change clothes at your place?
jim		 I suppose that would be okay.
oz		Nice car.
heather		I'm glad you think so.
oz		You don't like it?
heather		No, I like the car.  By the way, though, about prom?  That was like a bad idea.  Sorry I invited you.
oz		What?!
heather		Oh, please.  I asked you because I thought you might actually be worth going with.  But you are just a jock. No wait.  You're a jerk.
oz		What?  No I'm not.
heather		I saw you making fun of me with your lacrosse buddies.
oz		I wasn't making fun of you.
heather		Give me a break, you're so full of it.
choir teacher		Okay, Heather, that was good, but I want to thicken up that solo. Michigan State is this Saturday, and I want that part to smoke.
heather		I know, my timing's off.
choir teacher		A little, but I think it'll work better as a duet.  With a tenor part.
oz		 I'll do it.
choir teacher		Okay then.  The rest of you okay with that?
heather		 Why are you doing this?
oz		Because I want to.
heather		Yeah?  Well you can't fake your way through this.  You better practice.
stifler		Fuck me!  You're gonna have a naked Eastern-European chick in your house, and you're telling me you're not gonna take advantage of that?
jim		What am I gonna do, broadcast her over the internet?
oz		You can do that?
jim		 Oh -- no way.  I can't do that to her.
stifler		Dammit, Jim, get some fucking balls. If you don't have the guts to photograph a naked chick in your room, how are you ever gonna sleep with one? Now all you gotta do is set up some sort of private link or whatever on the net, and tell me the address.
kevin		You can send me the address too.
jim		Well...dammit, if I'm doing this, how the hell am I gonna watch?
kevin		I'll save you a seat.
computer voice		"You have established an internet connection."
kevin		There we go.
jim's dad		Son.  This lady's here for you.
jim		 I know.  Hey Nadia.
nadia		Hello James.  Ready to study.
jim's dad		Oh, you bet he is.  Jim's quite the bookworm.
jim		Dad.
jim's dad		Oh, no, not too much of a bookworm. He's a good little kid.  Er, guy. Man.
jim		Dad!!
jim's dad		Okay, okay.  I'll let you hit those books.
stifler's brother		Steve!  Steve!  It's my computer and I wanna use it!
stifler		Shut up and watch this, you might learn something.
jim		So you need to change, right?
nadia		Do you mind?  This fabric is so uncomfortable.
jim		No, go right ahead and get dressed. I'll just be downstairs, studying up. Get me when you're ready.
kevin		Here we go.
jim		Be back in a sec!
jim's mom		Jim?  Honey, where are you going?
kevin		Want a beer?
jim		Did I miss anything?!
kevin		Just in time.
jim		Woah!
kevin		Oh, man!  This is incredible.
stifler's brother		This is like the coolest thing I've ever seen.
jim		Oh, thank you Lord, for this wonderful day.
kevin		Nice collection there, Jim.
jim		Dear God -- she's -- she's -- she's --
kevin		You know, Jim...you could go back there...and...
finch		 Seduce her.
jim		But, but -- what would I do?
kevin		Anything!  Just tell her it looks like she needs an extra hand or something.
jim		That's stupid.
kevin		No, you're stupid.  Get going!  Right now!  She's primed!
jim		Oh...oh...oh, shit!
jim		Hey mom hey dad!
jim		Oh boy oh God oh crap oh no.
kevin		Come on, Jim.  Where are you?
sherman		 Jim must've addressed that E-mail wrong.  It went out to every mailbox in the East High directory.  God, how juvenile.
jim		Please, God.  Let this be it.
kevin		He's going in!
jim		Looks like you could use an extra hand.
nadia		 James!  You have come in here on purpose?!
jim		Well...uh...
nadia		Shame on you!
jim		Uh...yeah...sorry.
nadia		Well.  You have seen me.  Now it is my turn to see you.  Strip.
jim		Strip?
nadia		Yes, slowly.
jim		You mean like, strip strip?
nadia		 For me?
finch		What do you suppose they're saying?
kevin		No idea.
nadia		Perfect.
jim		Uh...
nadia		Move with the music.
jim		Um...okay...
nadia		No, no, you must put your whole body into it.
jim		Nadia, I can't --
nadia		Can't what?  Do you not want to be with me?  I wish to be entertained, James.
stifler		What the fuck is this?
sherman		The horror, the horror.
nadia		 More sexy, Jim, more sexy.
disinterested girl		He's no Paul Finch.
finch		This is truly revolting.
nadia		 More, more, you bad boy!
nadia		Now!  Hames, come to me.
jim		Oh yeah!
nadia		Be gentle.
kevin		Ho-lee shit.
stifler		This just got a hell of a lot better.
nadia		Jim...
jim		Oh no.
kevin		Oh no.
stifler's brother		What happened?!  What happened?!
stifler		He blew it.  Literally.
nadia		You are done, James.  Perhaps I should be going now.
jim		No, no, I'm not done!  I've got reserves!  Nadia, please please please.  I'm begging you.
nadia		I do like your dirty magazines.
jim		Did you see this?  This is your more exotic dirty magazine.
nadia		Yes...James, it is knowing that these beautiful women arouse you that arouses me...
jim		Oh yes.  Very arousing women.  They arouse me very much.  But not as arousing as you.
nadia		Oh Jim...
nadia		So, "shaved" is the expression?
jim		 Holy shit.
kevin		Holy shit!
nadia		Touch me Jim...here.
girls		Again?
kevin		Not again.
jim		No, not again.
nadia		 I am sorry, Jim.  I suppose we will not be doing any studying now.
jim		No!  I've got...reserve reserves!
nadia		It is too bad.  I was at first hoping you would ask me to the prom.  But...
jim		...okay.
computer voice		"You have lost your internet connection.  Click 'okay' to reconnect."
kevin		Hey, minuteman.
jim		Shut up.  You're supposed to be supportive.
oz		You've still got a chance with Nadia, right?
jim		No.  Her sponsors here saw the thing on the net.  I don't think they liked it.
kevin		How do you know that?
jim		She's already on a plane back home.
kevin		Yeah?  Well come prom night, those excuses aren't going to do you much good.
jim		Jesus, Kevin, rub it in.
michelle		And so, one time?  I was at band camp? And we weren't supposed to have pillow fights?  But we had a pillow fight! And it was so much fun!
jim		Hold on.  You have no idea why I'm angry?
michelle		Is it because we have a test tomorrow? Sometimes I get cranky when I know I have a big test to study for.
jim		Yeah, that's pretty much it.
michelle		I thought so.  Because, one time?  I was at this --
jim		 What was your name again?
michelle		Michelle.
jim		Okay.  Michelle, do you want to be my date for the prom?
michelle		Really?  You seriously want to go with me?
jim		 Yes.  Seriously.
michelle		Are we going to Steve Stifler's party afterwards?  That would be so cool.
jim		Whatever you want.
michelle		Cool!  We're gonna have so much fun! It's like this one time, at band camp...
oz		Dammit!
kevin		You're not doing the extra credit problems.
vicky		No, I'm not.  I'm writing a sequence of random numbers that look like I'm doing the extra credit problems.  Mr. Bender doesn't bother to check homework past April.
kevin		That's my trick!
vicky		It's everyone's trick, Kevin.  But I did pick it up from you.
kevin		We've come a long way since Homecoming.
vicky		 Yeah, we have.  You corrupted my four- point into a three-nine-five.
kevin		Indeed I did.  But, our relationship. It's progressed a lot.  It's time for us to...express ourselves in new ways.
vicky		Like how?
kevin		Well, I feel that...things are getting to that point in a relationship. When two people share...a special moment between them.
vicky		I think you're so right, Kevin.
kevin		 You want to do it?
vicky		Yes --
kevin		No, I don't not love you.  I like, I know that we've definitely got something between us.  Something good. Something special.
vicky		But you don't love me.
kevin		I didn't say that.  I mean, love, it's like a term that gets thrown around. People say things, they get married, have kids, and then what?  It's like they call it off, going "I was wrong."
vicky		Kevin...you're not your dad.  The two of us, we're not your parents.
kevin		I know, Vick.  I'm just not ready yet, okay?
vicky		Okay.
heather		Hi...
oz		How did you know I was here?
heather		Stifler told me.
oz		You talked to Stifler?
heather		Well...I needed to find you.  We are gonna have to practice that song.
oz		...okay.  Cool then.  I'm um, I'm glad you came by.  I mean, really.
heather		So you like, work nights?
oz		Uh...my dad's the manager.
heather		Really?  Cool.  Tell him his subs are great.
oz		Ah, he's always too heavy on the vinegar.  If you really want a good one, you gotta let me make it.
oz		My dad's always here running the store, busy and stuff...and I fill in once a week so he can get a night off.
heather		 That's nice.
oz		 So you're going to Michigan?
heather		Yeah, well my parents wanted me to go to Northwestern.  I didn't want to write all those extra essays they make you do -- I mean, how am I supposed to know what my "most emotionally significant moment" was?  So when my U of M acceptance came in December, I said the hell with it.
oz		Onions?
heather		What?
oz		You want onions?
heather		Oh, yeah.  So what're you gonna major in?
oz		Well, State's got a good business school.  And I can probably walk onto the lacrosse team.  Green peppers?
heather		Yeah.  So wow, you've got it figured out.
oz		 Well, I mean, business is okay, and lacrosse is awesome, but what am I gonna be, a pro lacrosse player?  I really have no idea.
heather		Oh thank God, I thought I was the only one.
oz		Well, you're not.  Oil and vinegar?
heather		Yeah.  You know, people are always like, "What're you gonna major in?" And I don't know.  And they're like, "You'll figure it out."  Yeah?  When?
oz		I know.  Salt and pepper?
heather		Sure.
oz		You -- oh, you mean -- yeah, East Lansing and Ann Arbor.
heather		 ...yeah.
oz		Wanna swap your chips for cookies?
stifler		You gotta be fucking kidding.
stifler		FINCH?  SHITBREAK?!!
kevin		Hey...what was that all about?
kevin		Right, and who told you that?
jessica		No comment.
kevin		No comment?!  Are you kidding me?! I've never seen someone's image change so...so drastically!
jessica		Thanks.  It was my idea.
kevin		Did you guys hook up or something?
jessica		Are you kidding?  No.
kevin		Then what the hell are you talking about?
jessica		Well...I guess it's okay for me to tell you now.  That reputation of his isn't going anywhere.  Finch comes to me and says, "Jessica, I need help with this, blah blah, etcetera."  So I told him, pay me two- hundred bucks, and I'll tell a couple girls that you're dynamite in bed.  So he did, and I did.
kevin		I don't get it, that really works?
jessica		Duh.  Of course.  Naturally, I embellished a little bit.  Hey, did you hear that Finch had sex with an older woman?
oz		 ...I needed the shelter of someone's arms...there you were -- woo-hoo- hoo...
stifler		Oh my fucking God.  You're gay.
oz		 Come on, you know the words, sing along.
stifler		No thanks, you've been singing that shit all week.  If you try that at MSU this Saturday, I'm pretending I don't know you.
oz		Our last game is this Saturday.
stifler		No shit.
oz		...I've got this lacrosse game.  It's really important, it's our last game. And you know, Central almost beat us last time, so I really want to kick their ass, and it's like cool because we're gonna get to play at State, which means that after the game I might be able to stop by...
heather		 You can't sing at the competition.
oz		I'm sorry, I totally spaced.  I just...I didn't realize it...
heather		 ...it's okay, you should do whatever makes you happy.
oz		Alright...yeah...thanks for understanding.  So I guess...I'll see you later.
stifler		Kevin!  You seen Shitbreak lately?
kevin		 Oh no, Stifler, what did you do?
stifler		Me?  Nothing.  I'm the one whose ass he kicked.  I'll tell you one thing, though.  I don't think he's gonna have a problem shitting in school anymore.
kevin		Finch!  Get to the bathroom!  Now!
finch		Easy, tiger.  What's in there?
kevin		Just go!
finch		Why is this?
kevin		You're gonna shit your pants!
finch		Charming.
kevin		Finch, listen -- Stifler slipped some sort of laxative in your Mocash-chino or whatever.  It's fast acting.  I mean really fast.
finch		First of all, it's Mochaccino, and secondly...Oohhhh!
stifler		This way, sit.
finch		Come on come on come on...
finch		Aaaaaaarrrgghhhh!
albert		No problemo.
coach marshall		Alright!  Good hustle, guys, but we can still lose.  You all saw what happened to Oz out there.  I don't ever want to see you guys thinking you're gonna score.  You don't score until you score, period.
albert		Focus on the music.  Think melody. Let the music be my guide.
heather		That would be a start.
coach marshall		It all boils down to today.  For you seniors, this marks the culmination of your past four years.  Think of what that means to you.  Are you guys gonna look back on your days at East and know that you made the most of the time you had?
oz		Good luck, guys.
coach marshall		Christ!  I didn't say you were out of the game!
oz		Sorry, coach.
coach marshall		What the fuck is this?  You got someplace more important to be?
oz		Yeah.
albert		-- Oh, great.
heather		What about the game?!
oz		I'm not playing.
heather		You're missing the game for us?!
oz		No.  I'm missing the game for you.
jim		Yeeeeeeeaaaawwwwww!
kevin		 You fuckin' rule!
kevin		Hey...
vicky		Did you know that it's...450 miles from Ann Arbor to Nashville?
kevin		It's like a six or seven hour drive. That's easy, I don't mind driving.
vicky		So have I.  And I know you want to make things perfect for me.  And I understand that you really wouldn't tell me that until you were 100% comfortable with it.
kevin		Yeah, we have something great, Vick.
vicky		Kevin...  I want to have sex with you.
kevin		 Now?!
vicky		No...I know the perfect time...
michelle		You know, at band camp?  We have dances like this.  Only they're way funner.  Don't you think prom is just highly overrated?
jim		Highly, highly overrated.
finch		Okay.  I'm here for your dumb...dumb meeting.
sherman		I'm on the offensive, boys.  The Sherman Tank is going back in.
kevin		Alright, how do you guys stand?  Well, Finch, I know where you are, but you can't use that as an excuse.  Jim?
jim		My date's a flute-toting band dork. That answer your question?
kevin		Oz, how about you and Heather?  Now you guys are a couple or something?
oz		 Dammit, Kevin, what's with the attitude?
kevin		Attitude?  Me?  I think that you guys should be more enthusiastic.  Shit, we've been trying to get laid forever, and tonight's the night we've been waiting for.  We're in this together. Don't back out on me now!
jim		Back out?  You don't need us to get laid.  You afraid or something?
kevin		No, but come on guys, we made a pact!
oz		Kevin, it was just a --
kevin		It was a pact.  You break it and there are no excuses.  You guys have to --
jim		 I don't have to do shit!  Forget it already!
finch		At least I learned how to shit in school.
jessica		Hey, Finch.  Wanna dance?
finch		How come you have no date?
jessica		I like to keep my options open.  And let me just clarify that you have no chance of scoring with me, Finch.
finch		No, of course not, don't be ridiculous.
vicky		So, I guess you and Sherman are pretty close.  You met at that party a while back?
central girl		Yeah, we were up the whole night together.  We had one of those amazingly deep conversations, where you really feel like you get to know someone.
vicky		 "Deep conversation," huh?  Is that what you guys call it?
central girl		What else would I call it?
central girl		Excuse me, everyone, sorry to interrupt.
oz		...Guess what?
kevin		I don't care.
jim		Kevin, come on, the bus to Stifler's is gonna be here soon.
kevin		I'm not going.
oz		I still think you're okay.
jim		So do I, Kev.
finch		Me too.  For the most part.
kevin		Nah.  Fuck, you guys are right, I don't know what I'm doing.  I mean I'm acting like I've got it all together tonight.  But I know Vicky is gonna ask me if I love her.  And I don't know what I'm gonna say.  So now it's like, maybe I'll just wimp out on the whole thing.
jim		Come on man.  Tonight is the night. We're finally going to a post-prom party on the lake.  We've been waiting to do this for the last four years. Why else are we still friends with Stifler?  You gotta go.
oz		And by the way, Sherman didn't even get laid.
kevin		He didn't?
finch		Nope.  He pissed himself.
jim		There it is.  I want to grab my bag. Oh, and my date.
oz		Come on, Kevin.  Vicky's looking for you.
jim		Stifler's mom got it in the divorce.
michelle		It reminds me of this one time --  Hey, can I ask you a question?  How come you don't have any stories?  I've got lots of stories, and you don't have any.
jim		Oh, I've got stories, believe me. They're a little more risque than tales of Band Camp.
michelle		Are they gross or something, like guy stuff?  Tell me.
jim		Okay.  You want a story?  Here's a story.  Stifler finds this beer, right?  And...
kevin		See -- this is the nicest room.
vicky		Wow, Kev...it's perfect.
stifler's brother		You guys are gonna fuck, aren't you!?
kevin		No!  Get out of here!
stifler's brother		 Fuckers fuckers fuckers fuckers!
oz		There's something I've been meaning to tell you, Heather.
heather		What's that?
oz		It's gonna sound really bad, but I want you to know.
heather		This isn't the best way to proposition me.
oz		No, that's not what I mean.  I mean -- look.  You know what made me leave that game?  Coach was giving this speech, about not slacking off when you see the opportunity to score.
heather		This isn't any better, Chris.
oz		No, see Heather, what I realized is that...with you, it's not like I'm running towards the goal, trying to figure out the best way to score.  And this may sound corny, but --
heather		Oz, it's okay, I know.
oz		You called me Oz.
heather		Well, that's what your friends call you.  I mean...I feel like I'm one of your friends now...and also...your girlfriend.
oz		Dieter.  My middle name is Dieter.
heather		Hmm.  You know that's  really a shitty middle name!
oz		 I know, it sucks!
finch		Ah, Stifler's mom!  Thank you for letting us have a great party.
stifler's mom		 As if there were any alternative in the matter.  Are you enjoying yourself?
finch		I'm three sheets to the wind, ma'am!
stifler's mom		 I'm so happy for you.  Takes the edge off, doesn't it?  And where might your date be?
finch		Oh no, no date.  Bathroom incident.
stifler's mom		Pardon me?
finch		...Nevermind.  You have anything to drink?
stifler's mom		I believe the kegs are upstairs.
finch		No, no, that's what the cretins drink. I mean alcohol, liquor -- good stuff.
stifler's mom		All right, I got some scotch.
finch		Single malt?
stifler's mom		Aged eighteen years.  Why don't you get the glasses.  Behind the bar.
michelle		That is a nasty story!
jim		I told you.
michelle		You wanna hear a nasty story of mine? It's kind of sexual.
jim		Yeah, bring it on!
michelle		Well, this one time?  At band camp? We were playing this game, I don't know if you know it?  But it's called spin the bottle?  And I had to kiss this guy named Marc Wander on the lips?  And...
kevin		You comfortable?
vicky		Yeah, are you?
kevin		Yeah.
vicky		You sure you're comfortable?
kevin		Yeah.  Are you sure?
vicky		Yeah.
kevin		Me too.
vicky		Okay.  Did you bring a condom?
kevin		Yeah, right here.
vicky		I don't know.  How do you?
kevin		Like, normal style.  The...missionary position.
vicky		Okay.
kevin		Yeah Vick?
vicky		I want to hear you say it.
kevin		Okay.
vicky		I love you.
oz		I can't think of anything to say that's not cheesy.
heather		Then don't.
vicky		Here.
jim		So, the end of the story is...you had to kiss the guy for twenty seconds?
michelle		Yes!  And he was such a dork!  And everyone laughed at me, but I didn't care?  Because it was so funny!
jim		 Okay, I get it.
michelle		Oh!  And then this one time?  At band camp?  I stuck a flute in my pussy.
jim		...excuse me?!
michelle		What, you think I don't know how to get myself off?  Hell, that's what half of band camp is!  Sex ed!
jim		This'll do.
michelle		Now, I have two rubbers.  Wear them both, it'll desensitize you.  I don't want you coming so damn early.
jim		Why, uh, what makes you think that I --
michelle		Come on.  I saw you on the net.  Why do you think I accepted this date? You're a sure thing!
finch		So...would you object if I said you're quite striking?
stifler's mom		Mister Finch -- are you trying to seduce me?
finch		Yes ma'am, I am.
jim		Hail, hail, to Michigan, the leaders and best!
stifler's brother		That was awesome!
stifler		Ugh...oh no...
jim		She's gone.
kevin		That was a great night.
vicky		Yeah.
kevin		I can't believe we just had our senior prom.
vicky		Yeah, the time went by so fast.
kevin		It did.
vicky		Kevin, next year...with you in Ann Arbor, and me in Nashville...it's not gonna work, is it.
kevin		Don't say that, we can do it somehow. It might not be perfect, but --
vicky		 That's the whole thing, that's what I've been realizing.  That nothing's perfect, that you can't plan everything.
kevin		It is far away...and we'll be on our own...meeting new people...
vicky		I know.  Let's go.  Don't you have something to tell your friends?
kevin		What?
vicky		Your little pact.  Jessica told me all about it.  Way to go, Kev!
kevin		 I guess we'll call you two-ply.
oz		Yeah.  So you want double condiments on that?
jim		No, no that's fine.  So you doing okay?
kevin		 Yeah.
finch		I'll tell you, I've learned one thing: women, like wine, get better with age.  Of course, I have no frame of reference for this comparison.
kevin		So Oz, you almost made it, huh?
oz		 I'll just say that we had a great night together.
jim		Hang in there, buddy, you'll get there.
oz		I know.
kevin		Wow.  You two really have something going, don't you?
oz		I think we're falling in love.
kevin		You know what the coolest thing is? This, right now.
oz		It's true.  I mean, after this, everything'll be different.
jim		After getting laid?
oz		After high school.
kevin		Yeah, but we'll still see each other.
oz		Fuck yeah we will.
kevin		To the next step.
all		To the next step.
kevin		 Hey.  I got another question for you.
jim's dad		 Son.  That's the best damn story I ever heard.
bellboy		 Another bottle?
waiter		 He knows how to treat a woman.
jim		Thanks guys.
nadia		Come back to bed, James.
waiter		 That is one lucky man.
bellboy		 Funny -- I swear I have seen those two somewhere before.  The boy is some sort of dancer.
****Dialogues from script :american_psycho.txt****

price		Jeez. That's not a helluva lot, is it?
bateman		Just...say...no.
courtney		Tell me. Stash...do you think SoHo is becoming to...commercial?
bateman		J&B. Straight.
price		 Jesus. Dorsia? On a Friday night? How'd he swing that?
homeless man		Al.
homeless man		Al.
bateman		There's a quarter. Go buy some gum.
kimball		Just some preliminary questions that I need for my own files, okay?
kimball		You seem...nervous.
bateman		She's from...France.
bateman		I'm looking for...Paul Owen's...place.
****Dialogues from script :american_sniper.txt****

chris kyle		Fucking hot box.
goat		Dirt over here tastes like dog shit.
chris kyle		I guess you'd know.
chris kyle		 I got a military-aged male, on a cell phone, watching the convoy. Over.
chris kyle		 He stepped off.
chris kyle		 Hold up. I got a woman and a kid, 200 yards out, moving toward the convoy.
chris kyle		Her arms aren't swinging. She's carrying something.
chris kyle		She just pulled a grenade. An RKG Russian grenade. I think she gave it to the kid.
chris kyle		You got eyes on this? Can you confirm?
man's voice		Get back here.
wayne		Don't ever leave your gun in the dirt.
chris		Yes, sir.
wayne		Helluva shot, son. You got a gift. You're gonna make a fine hunter someday.
wayne		Everything dies to give life.
chris		Can it see me?
wayne		It's a deer, son.
wayne kyle		 You shot it, you deal with it.
pastor		We don't see with his eyes so we don't know the glory of his plan. Our lives unfold before us like puzzling reflections in a mirror. But on the day we rise, we will see with clarity and understand the mystery of his ways--  JEFF, his reedy little brother, watches Chris slip the Bible in his pocket. Jeff laughs and gets smacked by--  DEBBIE, their mother. She wears big oval glasses and runs a wayward-boys home with that same steady hand.
wayne kyle		Some people prefer to believe that evil doesn't exist in the world, and if it ever darkened their doorstep they wouldn't know how to protect themselves... those are the sheep.
wayne kyle		Now we're not raising any sheep in this family and I will whoop your ass if you turn into a wolf--
debby		Wayne--
wayne		But we take care of our own. And if someone picks a fight with you or bullies your brother, you have my permission to finish it.
chris		The guy was picking on Jeff.
wayne kyle		That true?
jeff		 Yes sir... Yes, he was...
wayne kyle		 And did you finish it?
wayne		Then you know who you are...
jeff		Wasn't nobody there and you come away with a belt buckle too damn big to wear. What you supposed to do with it?
chris		 You're supposed to get laid with it. I'm gonna wear it in and see if it puts Sarah in the mood.
jeff		A strong wind'd put Sarah in the mood.
chris		Is that what they say?
jeff		You know what they called her in high school--
chris		Don't say it.
jeff		Sarah suck-a--
jeff		Shit man--
chris		Who wants to hump a rodeo star?
chris		What the fuck--
sarah		You said you wasn't coming home until tomorrow.
chris		 Why would you do this?
sarah		Just let him out. He didn't know...
chris		 You didn't know?
sarah		What the fuck is wrong with you! What'd you expect? You drag me out here then run off with your damn brother every weekend!
chris		Get out.
sarah		You think you're a cowboy cause you rodeo? You're no cowboy. You're just a lousy ranch-hand and a shitty fuckin lay!
jeff		Some people ain't worth fighting for.
chris		But she was right...
jeff		 A job is a job. At least we're outside.
chris		Jeff, wake up. Look at this--
chris		Look what they did...
chris		I saw what they did, on our soil, and--
navy recruiter		And you're from Texas and you're a patriot so it pissed you off.
chris		Yes, sir. But I can't see myself on a ship. I'd wanna be in the fight--
navy recruiter		You wanna fight? Meet the warrior elite.
chris kyle		SEALs?
navy recruiter		Sea, Air and Land.
chris		I ain't much of a swimmer--
navy recruiter		 This isn't for the faint of heart. Most men wash-out. They quit--
chris		 I'm not most men, sir. I don't quit.
instructor rolle		 You a quitter, boy?
chris kyle		No, sir!
instructor rolle		Bullshit, you are fleet-meat. Don't turn away. Look up and take it. You're old as fuck. Did you join the Navy cause you had such a good time on Noah's Arc? How old are you?
chris		30, sir.
instructor rolle		30! You fart dust and could've fathered half these boys. You think cause you had a pop-gun back in Texas you're cut out to be a SEAL?
chris		No, sir.
instructor rolle		No, you're not cut out to be one?
instructor rolle		What kind of asshole joins the Navy but hates the water.
chris		I love water, hooyah.
instructor rolle		My ass you do.
instructor rolle		Is that you giggling you fat fuck? Look at you. You're so fat they had to baptize you at Sea World. Your momma fat too?
ryan		No sir, she's not.
instructor rolle		Don't lie to me! I bet we could use her panties as a parachute. What the fuck are you doing here fatboy? Do your feet get wet when you shower? When's the last time you saw your pecker? You're not a Seal, you're a fuckin Walrus. A big giggling Walrus. "Biggles" that's your new name--
instructor rolle		--and that's your ticket home. Just drag your jelly-roll ass up and ring it and you'll be headed home to momma Shamu.
instructor rolle		 Did I ask you to count?
chris		No, sir.
instructor rolle		Was that your ass talking then?
instructor rolle		That's a quitter. If he quits here, he'll quit in battle. When shit gets hairy he can't step up. You get shot, he can't pull you out. We're gonna weed out the quitters and see if we can find a warrior or two.
instructor rolle		Wave goodbye to the sun, boys...
chris		--and when I told her the condom broke she started crying and begging me to do something. And I'm a virgin, I don't know what to do, but I'd heard if you pour Coke up there you won't get pregnant--  So we went to 7-11, got a liter of Coke and drove back into the woods. She took her panties off and did a handstand against a tree but when I start pouring, she starts screaming, "it stings, it stings" but when I'd stop, she'd scream "no don't stop" and it's fizzing out and--
dauber		Country is countrywide, sir.
biggles		Hooyah. I'd toss that critter shitter on a baguette and get my eat on.
squirrel		Nuts crawled up inside. The little shits are gone for good.
chris kyle		Dangerous, sir. Feeling dangerous.  The boys send up a spirited "HOOYAH" and-- TONY looks them over with some small measure of approval.
chris		I'm gonna try and get into sniper school.
biggles		Can you shoot?
chris		I can hunt. And what's cooler than being a sniper?
biggles		Blowing shit up. Blowing shit up is way cooler.
taya		 Will a drink make you 6 inches taller and charming? Will it make you not married?
taya		I watched you take your ring off. Don't be a scumbag. Go home.
chris		It could be the leather pants.
taya		Yeah? What kind of pants does a girl have to wear to be left alone?
chris		Corduroy.
taya		Is that how it is with you guys-- suddenly single after three beers?
chris		Only thing that happens to me after three beers is a fourth.
taya		That's great. A real red-neck.
chris		I'm no redneck, I'm a Texan.
taya		What's the difference?
chris		We ride horses, they ride their cousins.
taya		 What do you do for work? You look like military.
chris		I polish dolphins. They have to be polished in captivity or their skin disintegrates.
taya		Do I look stupid to you?
chris		To be honest, you look a little sad.
chris		So am I tall enough to buy you a drink?
taya		Not until you tell me what you do.
chris		How about this: one shot, one answer.
taya		You're obviously military. What branch?
chris		I'm just finishing BUD/S.
taya		Are you kidding me? You're a SEAL?
chris		That was two questions...
taya		 I know all about you guys. My sister was engaged to a SEAL.
chris		What's that mean you know all about us?
taya		You're a bunch of arrogant, self-centered pricks who think you can lie and do whatever the fuck you want.  I'd never date a SEAL.
chris		 How can you say we're self-centered? I'd lay down my life for my country.
taya		Why?
chris		Cause it's the greatest country on earth and I believe it's worth protecting.  I'm sorry this guy hurt your sister but that's not me. Nice talking to you.
taya		Where are you going?
chris		You said you'd never date a SEAL, so I'm going home.
taya		I said I'd never marry one.
chris		Well in that case... what's your name?
taya		Taya.
chris		Nice to meet you, Taya. I'm Chris Kyle.
taya		 Pretty egotistical of you to think you can protect us all, isn't it Chris?
chris		Our instructors say our biggest enemies are ego, liquor, and women.
taya		Sounds like you're under attack.
taya		--I'm not going home with you so don't even think about it.
po tosh		Feel breath filling every cell of your body. This is our ritual. We master our breath, we master our mind---
po tosh		--pulling the trigger will become an unconscious effort. You will be aware of it but not directing it. And as you exhale, find your natural respiratory pause and the space between heart-beats.
taya		You figured what?
taya		Did you always want to be a soldier?
chris		I wanted to be a cowboy-- but I did that and I felt like I was meant for more.
taya		So you started rescuing girls from bars?
chris		I rescued that bar from you.
chris		Do you like country music?
taya		Only when I'm depressed.
chris		You want kids?
taya		Someday. My mom says I have a nose for picking the wrong men.
chris		That's a shitty thing to tell a girl.
taya		I've proven her right.
chris		But those wrong picks put you here. They made you who you are. And I like who you are.
taya		What happens when there's a real person on the other end of that gun?
chris		 I don't know... I just pray I can do my job if that day comes.
po tosh		Mirage is boiling at 35 degree angle.
chris		Check. I'm dialed for windage.
po tosh		Hold right-four, up-two.
po tosh		Are we looking at the same target?
chris		You're trembling...
taya		I know. I don't...
chris		We don't have to do this...
taya		I want to. I do...
po tosh		You need to shut your off-eye.
chris		If I close my off-eye I can't see what's out there.
chris		Negative. There's something--
po tosh		Give me 50 push-ups. Clear and safe. Push `em out.
chris		There it is.
taya		You hardly even know me.
chris		I know enough. You're a package deal, babe.
chris		What are you afraid of?
taya		Nothing. Everything. I don't know. What if it doesn't work out?
chris		I'm going to marry you, and we're going to start a family.
taya		You got it all planned out, don't you.
chris		I love you. I'm done.
taya		 Oh my god! No! Chris--  Chris bounds up, running into the next room. Taya stands in front of the television. They both watch as--  ON TV NEWS: THE SECOND PLANE hits the World Trade Center.  It steals their breath. Chris hugs her close, trying to shield her from it. His shock bleeds to rage.
taya		 What the hell is on your neck?
chris		Would you believe me if I told you I was painted green and on an IV two hours ago?
taya		What do you--
chris		 Package deal babe.
tony		 It's on boys. Just got the call.
chris		They say it'll be over in 6 weeks.
taya		I'm so afraid.
chris		Don't be afraid. It's all part of the plan.
taya		Your heart is beating out of your chest.
chris		 I'm not the only one going to war.
marc lee		AQI have put a price on your heads and extremists from around the globe are flooding the borders to collect on it.
marc lee		You snipers will be paired with a man to watch your back and inserted along the main road to do "overwatch" for 1st Marines going door to door. Your job is to protect those Marines at all costs.
marc lee		The city was evacuated. Any military-aged male still here, is here to kill you. Let's bring these boys in safe and get our asses back home. Move--
winston		Keep your head down, Tex. The Muj' got snipers too.
chris		A sniper won't aim for your head.
winston		They got this sniper that's been hitting headshots from 500 yards out--
chris		They got sniping in the Olympics now?
winston		 What're we looking for?
chris		You ever hunt?
winston		I ain't that kind of red-neck.
chris		 You just got your first kill, Goat.
chris		I'm going to the roof. You stay here and be on the lookout for farm animals.
chris kyle		 I got a military-aged male, on a cell phone, watching the convoy. Over.
chris kyle		 He stepped off.
chris kyle		Hold up. I got a woman and a kid, moving toward the convoy.
chris kyle		Her arms aren't swinging. She's carrying something.
chris kyle		She just pulled a grenade. An RKG Russian grenade. I think she gave it to the kid.
chris kyle		You got eyes on this? Can you confirm? Over.
goat		You hear that?
chris		Get the fuck off me.
marc lee		That's your overwatch, Einstein. You can thank him later. Keep moving.
marc lee		Smells like piss in here.  You covered our ass out there, man. Appreciate it. Those were ballsy shots.
chris kyle		And they were clean. Right?
marc lee		Hell yeah, they were.
chris		 That sniper walked right up our ass.
marc lee		I chewed out our security detail. It won't happen again.
chris		My shooter statements are on the dresser.
marc lee		Six?
chris		Should be eight. Two got dragged off.  Something wrong?
marc lee		No... but you got more kills than the rest of the snipers combined.
chris		They still got one of our guys.
marc lee		You can't shoot what you can't see.  Marc's eyes land on piss-stained cement where Chris lay; this fucker didn't take his eye off the glass all night.
biggles		Heard you got your dick wet.
chris		Where is everybody?
biggles		We're just picking our dicks here, training those fucking haji soldiers.
chris		Why ain't you out there?
biggles		I got the shits. Marc Lee said you were on fuckin fire out there.
chris		 You still read comic books?
biggles		It's a fuckin graphic novel. Talk to me, man. Did you pop your cherry?
chris		This kid didn't even have hair on his balls and his mom hands him a grenade-- sends him running off to kill Marines.
biggles		 You saw his balls?
chris		It was evil, man. That was hate like I've never seen it before.
biggles		That kid could've taken out ten Marines--
chris		 I know.
biggles		You did your job. End of fuckin story.
chris		It's just not how you imagine the first one going down.
biggles		How about the other ones? What about the other kills?
chris		The other ones-- were righteous. Like God was blowing on my bullets.
jag officer		Our task here is to make sure every kill is a righteous kill and conforms to ROEs.
chris		By every kill, do you mean just our kills or you're monitoring the bad guys too?
chris		Sorry, was that a question?
marine sniper		Haven't seen shit all day. Maybe the war is over and they forgot to tell us.
chris		 I got a armed military-aged male moving tactically with a car battery. Maybe he needs a jump?
jag officer		His wife said he was carrying a Koran.
chris		Well, I don't know what a Koran looks like but I can describe what he was carrying-- it was pressed metal, fired
biggles		Listen up ladies and genitals. The Legend here would like you to know that when it comes to sniping it's better to be lucky than good! Our boy here has a Texas horseshoe crammed so far up his ass that--
chris		That's not how the call-home goes, babe.
chris		There are things we can't say over the phone.
taya		 You knocked me up and now I'm stuck here by myself assembling baby-cribs and you can't talk to me? That's the big plan?
taya		You guys almost done over there yet?
chris		I can't stop thinking about that pink silky thing you wore on our honeymoon...
taya		It's called a nightgown.
chris		Yeah--
taya		And three days is not a honeymoon.
chris		It was a good three days. I miss you bad.
taya		 You want me to talk dirty to you?
chris		Yeah. But I got my gun in one hand and the phone in the other--
taya		Well, you'll just have to decide what's more important.
chris		You're horny preggers.
taya		Fat and horny. It's kinda disgusting.
chris		You could be 300 pounds I'd still do you.
taya		-So romantic.
chris		How's my boy?
taya		Nobody said it's a boy--
chris		I can't wait to see the way you are with him. You're gonna be incredible.
taya		 How do you know?
chris		I just know. I can see it.
taya		I hope you're right.
taya		 Did your dad get hold of you?
chris		I haven't checked any email.
taya		Shit. You need to call him. Hang up and--
chris		What happened?
taya		I'm so selfish. I wasn't even thinking--
chris		Taya.
taya		Your little brother deployed.
chris		What happened to jump school? I thought--
taya		He didn't get in. Just call your dad--
chris		Deployed where? Where's he going?
taya		Over there. He's headed to Iraq.
chris		These Marines rush in like they been doing, they'll get their asses shot off.
marc lee		They're Marines. They don't get the training we do. Half of them were civilians six months ago.
chris		So let's coach them up. I'll show them how Team Guys do it and lead a unit in the street.
marc lee		Can't do. We need you on overwatch.
chris		But if I was down in the street--
marc lee		House-to-house is the deadliest job here. You got some kind of savior complex?
chris		I just wanna get the bad guys. And I can't shoot them if I can't see `em.
marc lee		You got a hot hand. These Marines all know your name now and they think they're invincible with you up there.
chris		They're not--
marc lee		They are if they believe they are. Just keep banging on the long-gun and let these ground-pounders sniff out Zarqawi.
chris		You said that AQI sniper was in the Olympics-- but Iraq hasn't qualified a shooter in the last three games.
goat		Mustafa's not Iraqi. He's from Syria.
chris		 Once you make entry I can't see shit, so keep it slow and push through the target.
chris		Fuck this-- I'm going down to clear houses with the Marines. You coming?
goat		No man. No. I like my life. I wanna make it home. I go fishing and do all kind of cool shit. It's not my job to knock down doors. Those guys picked the wrong fucking job. I ain't doing that shit.
chris		 If I don't see you down there, you make sure I don't see you again.
chris		 You wanna be a sniper? Swap me guns.
chris		I'll roll with you guys if that's cool?
thompson		You're that guy. They're calling you The Legend. You got like 24 confirmed kills.
thompson		That's badass.
sanchez		There's some boy in Bravo catching up.
chris kyle		 Y'all are meateaters for sure but I got a little training I could show you, some simple shit, that might just keep us above ground. What do you say?
sanchez		 -Whas that mean again?
gillespie		Cover and follow.
chris		Down. Down! On the floor, now!
chris		I will fucking shoot you! Down! Get down--
gillespie		He does look a little retarded.
chris		You were ordered to evacuate. Why are you still here?
sanchez		I found these bitches in the back closet.
sanchez		This sand nig' want us in here so he can blow us up. Check his ass for a vest.
chris		Who will know we've spoken?
chris		Bring the other guys in.
chris		Who is he? I need a name.
terp		He calls him - the pure flame of fire- . Basically, this man comes to their house and prey on the weak with hurt.
chris		So he's some kind of enforcer?
chris		 We want Zarqawi. Where do we find Zarqawi?
chris		How do we find him?
terp		He will ask for money.
chris		We don't even have proof this guy exists.
chris		I'm sorry. I want to help you. I do. But I need names, places, phone numbers--
thompson		 Hey, we got a Marine unit pinned down in a house just uprange--
chris		Give me a name, Sheik. Give me something.
thompson		They're out of ammo. If we don't go now--
agent shead		I guess that translates to "pay me" in just about any language, doesn't it?
chris		Yes sir, it does.
marc lee		And you're the secret squirrel with the cash, right?
agent shead		 When you were having tea with Sheik al- Obedie did he tell you he ran a network of highway bandits before AQI moved in?
chris kyle		He left that part out.
agent shead		That's AQI's racket now. Your Sheik got edged out. This could be blowback.
chris		Or he could be upset The Butcher cut off his wife's hand. Either way, seems like you'd wanna explore it.
agent shead		This is your guy here.  We believe The Butcher is Zarqawi's number two man.
chris		But you don't know his real name or you'd have it written up there.
agent shead		We have several aliases--  If "Fanus" is legit we go see the Sheik.
agent shead		If he delivers the Butcher he'll get it.  This is Agent Shead, DIA, I need a name check on "Amir Khalaf Fanus." I'll wait.
chris		If we're going back out, TEAM 3 could pull security--
agent shead		If we're humping money the head-shed will want contractors on it.  I'm here. What do you got?
contractor		Road-kill.
agent shead		The Butcher is Zarqawi's enforcer. They say his weapon of choice is a drill.
marc lee		I went to seminary school before I joined the Navy. Came close to being a preacher.
chris		Why didn't you?
marc lee		I love to gamble, man. Love those dice.
chris		My kind of preacher.
marc lee		It's like that now, huh?
chris kyle		You haven't heard? I'm The Legend.  Hey babe--
chris kyle		It's a boy!
marc lee		Hell yeah. Congratu--
taya		Chris!--
marc lee		I heard one shot.
chris kyle		Check. Large caliber. Came in at an angle, gotta be 300 or more out--
marc lee		 He's all over us. You get a bead?
chris kyle		Negative--
chris		Minaret, 11 o'clock!
agent shead		 There's no room. We'll come back for you--
chris		You got eyes on that?
marc lee		Negative.
chris		Eyes on The Butcher. He's got that Sheikh's kid in the street--
chris		Fuck!--
marc lee		 --requesting back-up. We're pinned down taking sniper fire on approach of high-
marc lee		We're on the wrong end of this.
chris		I'm gonna pop smoke for cover but don't move till I say.
chris		Hold.
marc lee		We gotta go--
chris		Holding! Hold...
chris		Move now. Go--
marc lee		How you know he'd wait--
chris		Cause I'd wait.  In the smoky haze, A SAT PHONE in the dirt--
taya		 Chris--
chris		Go around. I'll go high.
the butcher		 You talk to them, you die with them.
chris kyle		He had line-of-sight 500 meters out.
biggles		Colonel Gronski is all over Marc, bro.
chris		We need to work up a squad to pursue him.
marc lee		They're shutting us down.
chris		What do you mean?
marc lee		We're confined to base pending an incident review.
chris		Can he do that? Just shelf us like that? I ship home in three weeks.
biggles		It's gonna be a long three weeks.
taya		I thought you were dead. I thought--
chris		Shh. I'm know. I'm so sorry.
chris		You're the most beautiful thing I've ever seen.
taya		I have an alien growing inside me--
taya		And there's a strange man in my bedroom.
chris		Our bedroom.
taya		 Why isn't it on your finger?
chris		If it catches the light...
taya		Your hands feel different.
chris		They're mine. I swear...
taya		Why am I so fucking nervous?
chris		 I'm nervous too.
taya		No you're not. Don't lie.
chris		I am... What if that little alien reaches out and grabs me?
taya		Why are you so good with me.  Her face opens in ecstasy.
chris		 Huh?--
taya		What do you want to do today, hon'?
chris		Maybe we just relax here?
taya		Okay, we do that. Let's relax.
doctor hoffstader		How you feeling?
taya		I'm done being pregnant. I want to meet him.
doctor hoffstader		It'll be any day now.
doctor hoffstader		How about you Mr. Kyle? How're you feeling?
chris kyle		Good. Doing good.
doctor hoffstader		I imagine you're still decompressing.
chris		Not really.
taya		Well, this is the first time we left the house.
chris		I'm just happy to be home.
doctor hoffstader		Here, slip this on for me.
chris		If you wanna help, you should be looking at my knees. I don't know what I did but--
doctor hoffstader		Are you a smoker?
chris		No, ma'am.
doctor hoffstader		Do you drink?
chris		 Only when I'm thirsty.
taya		 Jesus Christ Chris...
chris		Is that high?
doctor hoffstader		Not if you just had 14 cups of coffee. But for someone who is sitting down--
chris		I'll look into it. Thanks doc.
chris		You sabotaged me back there.
taya		What am I supposed to do. You're not talking. You act like it's all okay--
chris		It is okay. I'm fine.
taya		You're not fine. Your blood pressure--
chris		Babe, I'm driving down the freeway, it's sunny and 72 degrees. I'm fine. But there are people dying over there and I look around and it's like it's not even happening. It's barely on the news, no one talks about it. No one cares. And if I stay too long I'll forget about it too.
taya		Chris--
chris		We're at war and I'm headed to the mall.
chris		I don't belong here. I can't help anybody-
taya		--it's happening--
chris		Oh shit--
taya		What're you doing!
chris		I'm going back.
taya		 --oh my god, you're crazy! You're fucking crazy you know that?
chris		My little man...
chris		Look at our boy. Look what we did.  I love you, baby. We made it--
taya		Don't bother turning it off, I already watched it.
taya		I had to make sure you didn't have an Iraqi girlfriend sending sexy videos.
chris		This sniper is recording his kills. Mustafa. They sell these in the street.
taya		That day we were on the phone--
taya		You're not protecting me by not talking about it.
chris		I don't want you thinking about it. I don't need you worrying.
taya		My imagination is so much worse than anything you could tell me--
chris		 No, it's not. They're savages.
taya		Chris--
chris		They're fuckin savages.
taya		It's not about them, it's about us.  You have to make it back to us.  Her eyes trail off him as she steps into the kitchen.  Chris holds his son, taken with his ruddy innocence. Then the BEDOUIN MUSIC swells, his arms tighten around his son, and his eyes are drawn back to Mustafa.  "SECOND TOUR"
chris kyle		Slower than Christmas.
chris		Can you give me a second--?
chris kyle		Hey, grunt--
jeff		Chris?
chris kyle		Y'alright? You in one piece?
marine lcpl		Let's go, PFC Kyle. Move your ass.
chris		You okay? Jeff?--
jeff		I heard you're kickin ass our here. All the guys, that's what they say--
jeff		You're my hero, bro. Always have been.
jeff		 The Legend...
jeff		 I'm gonna miss my ride.
chris kyle		What happened?
jeff		I'm just tired, man. I'm--  I'm going home.
chris		I'm proud of you. You hear me?
chris		Dad too. He's proud of you.
jeff		Fuck this place--
chris		 What?
jeff		Fuck this place.
chris kyle		Thank you, sir.
chris kyle		Don't tell my wife, she might take that number right about now.
chris kyle		Yes, sir.  COL. JONES We plugged the rat-hole that is Fallujah and flushed them into Ramadi. We got some intel indicating his area of operations.  As they cross the Euphrates the SLUMS OF RAMADI are laid out before them like a blanket of chaos.  COL. JONES I want you to put the fear of God in these savages, and find his ass.
chris		You guys know how I hate this shit so shut your traps. Our target is Amir Khalaf Fanus aka The Butcher.  We'll be heading in under cover of darkness, sector P13, north of the river--
biggles		You give good power-point, Legend.
marc lee		Is this thing bulletproof?  You never open it so I assumed...
chris kyle		God, country, family, right?
marc lee		You got a God?
chris kyle		You getting weird on me?
marc lee		We had this electric fence around our property in Oregon and us kids used to see who could grab it and hang on the longest. War feels like that, it puts lightning in your bones, makes it hard to hold on to anything else.
chris kyle		You need to sit this one out?
marc lee		I just wanna believe in what we're doing--
chris kyle		Evil lives here, we've seen it.
marc lee		It lives everywhere--
chris kyle		You want to invite these motherfuckers to come fight in San Diego? Or New York? We're protecting more than this dirt.
marc lee		Hooyah then. Lets go kill this fucker.
tony		 This building, any apartment on the east side, will look down Fahima Halal.
chris		 Breacher-up.
chris		Tell em they won't be leaving till we do--  Ask if they seen him.
biggles		 --Private eyes, we're watching you, watching your every move...
marc lee		Big freezers.
chris		Let's keep eyes on it get pictures of anyone coming and going.
biggles		Fucking Chief Nappy-nap.  A challenging smile. Chris flips him off.  "D" Got some nice rugs up in here.  This shit is hand-knotted. Beautiful.  Surveillance rolling, Chris closes his eyes.
chris		What do we got?
marc lee		16 military aged males have gone in.
chris		Sixteen?
biggles		They serve more customers than McDonalds.
marc lee		And check this.
chris		He still inside?
marc lee		I'm only clocking one point of entry. He's in there, but it's no easy breach.
biggles		When they see it's The Legend they'll probably just invite him in--
chris		You got a problem? I didn't promote myself.
biggles		No, I did it for you. You'd never have made Chief if I nicknamed you "The Myth".
tony		Enough. It's everybody's Navy.
biggles		--naw, it's Legend's Navy now. Just hope he leaves some for the rest of us.
chris		Hash out tactics. We go at zero-dark. And Big Giggles is making the coffee.
terp		 He invites you to join him for Eid al- Adha supper. He says -on this day everyone has a seat at my table-.
chris		Tell him that's very generous of him.
chris		Tell him he's gonna be shipped off for detention and the Iraqi courts can decide what to do with him-- or he can help us get inside that restaurant down there.
marc lee		That's a bad move--
biggles		He's our breech. He's a fucking way in--
marc lee		If something happens--
biggles		He's AQI man, look what he's holding.
chris		It's his choice. Tell him.
chris		 We have eyes on the target. Flushing them out the back--
biggles		 Negative. Nothing yet.
chris		 Help him--
chris		 They're coming back up! Watch your six--
biggles		--I can't hear you. Say again.
chris kyle		Move.
dauber		Biggles! Watch your six. Roadies on you--
chris		Pull back! Loading--
biggles		Got you.
biggles		RPG!
chris		Contact. Eyes on The Butcher. 12 o'clock.
chris		 Dauber? You got visual? Confirm.
dauber		Negative. No shot--
chris		He's on the move. Crossing!
biggles		Got you. Got you. Go, go, go--
chris		 I offered his father detention. I gave him a choice--
pfc alvarez		Sir, we have armed insurgents moving this way. We need to make tracks.
chris kyle		Tell him this boy's father was fighting for the people that butchered the clerics we found in the freezer in there.
terp		- This is our territory. If you want to come here, you ask me. If you want to find someone, I find them-
chris kyle		 If I ask for your help you're the one they carve up next. I've seen it happen.
terp		-I am the seventh son of Isaac of Abraham. This is the land of my father, and I am not afraid.- He says your evil is greater than those you fight. He calls you white satan, devil of Ramadi.
chris kyle		You tell him to deliver The Butcher to us, or the devil comes back.
chris		Hey, some help here-- She's crying--
colton		But I want that one--
chris		 You don't get to choose, bubba.
colton		But I don't like it! I want that one--
chris		You get what it gives you. That's how this thing works.
chris		Don't do this. Get up. Come on--
chris		 Get off the floor. Right now--
young man		Are you... "Chief" Chris Kyle?
chris		That's me.
young man		Sorry to intrude, sir, but we met in Fallujah. You saved my life.
chris		Did I--?
chris		 Yeah. Right. Well, you Marines saved our ass plenty out there. How you holding up?
mads		It cost lots of guys more than a leg.
chris		Did you lose some friends?
mads		That too, but I'm talking about guys that lived. They made it back but they're just not back. They can't seem to get right.
chris		Yeah, I-- I'm sorry to hear that.
mads		You should come down to the VA sometime. The guys would love it. They all know who The Legend is.
mads		I bet you missed your daddy when he was gone. But can I tell you something? Your dad is a hero. He saved my life--  He helped me get home to my little girl.
mads		So thank you for loaning him to us, li'l man. I wouldn't be here without him.
mads		My family thanks you for your service.
taya		I'm making memories by myself. I have no one to share them with.
chris		We have the rest of our lives for that.
taya		When does that start? Even when you're here you're not here.
taya		I hate the teams for it. I do. You're my husband and the father of my children-- but they're the ones that pull you back.
chris		 We can wait. They can't.
taya		You can only circle the flame so long.
biggles		 --we are tailing the Butcher's courier, turning onto Maryland Street. Over.
biggles		I bought the ring.
chris		Here?
biggles		They're cheaper here.
chris		You want some savage's ring? What if it's a blood diamond?
biggles		What the fuck do you care? You spilled more blood than anyone!
chris		Not for a rock.
biggles		Whatever, man.
chris		Ease off, don't get too close.  You gonna tell her where it came from?
biggles		Hell no! I'll tell her I got from Zales.
marc lee		20 years from now, we'll have a reunion and you'll be married to a dude.
chris		The Butcher has his peepers out.
biggles		This motherfucker is Keyser Sze. Next time you got a shot try not to miss.
chris		I coulda taken him in that alley if I didn't have to save your ass--
biggles		 Whatever helps you sleep at night.
biggles		You gonna be my best man?
chris		 Is it just me? Or other guys too?
biggles		You fucking egomaniac--
biggles		Rooftop, twelve-o'clock--  SIX INSURGENTS pop up on a rooftop, firing. Chris leans into the .60 spitting lead in pneumatic bursts.
chris		Get me a shot, grandma.
biggles		That should do it.
chris		What the fuck!? How'd he survive--
biggles		Rubber junk-man's got your horseshoe.
biggles		Clear.
chris		 We're headed to the roof. Secure the van.
marc lee		No ammo, no jihad.
biggles		How the hell'd he make that?
chris		He didn't--
biggles		So much for leading us to the Butcher.
chris		So much for him having my horseshoe.
chris		She'll take it to Zales and try to find out how much your spent.
biggles		She's not like that.
chris		They're all like that.
biggles		It's giant, bro. Four karats. It had to belong to one of Saddam's bitches--
chris		No!--
chris		 No, buddy. No! Stay with me--
chris		 Cover! I need cover. He's picking us off.
biggles		 I'm got it. I got it-- I can walk--
biggles		 --I'm sorry--
chris		You got nothing to be sorry for. I shouldn't have had us up there--
biggles		Am I gonna die?
dauber		We'll rub a little dirt in it, get you a sip of water, you'll be fine.
biggles		--it was always gonna be me--
chris		Coulda been any of us. Just hang on--
biggles		Not you. Not the Legend. You lucky fuck--
chris		Don't die, Ryan. You hold on--
chris		He was 1000 meters out. Only one enemy sniper makes that shot.
dauber		Doesn't look good, Master Chief.
marc lee		Lex talionis...  Eye for eye, tooth for tooth.
chris		We're going back.
marc lee		Two clicks out. Lock and load.
chris		For Biggles.
marc lee		Courtyard is clear. Moving.
chris		Some stronghold. Move.
marc lee		Clear.
marc lee		Somebody left in a hurry.
chris		 You sure we got the right address--
marc lee		Contact--
chris		Marc--
taya		Marc wrote that letter two weeks ago. Did he say any of that to you?
taya		Chris? I want to know what you thought of his letter...
chris		 An AQI informant called in a tip. Biggles had just been shot. We were operating off emotion and-- we walked into an ambush.
chris		But that's not what killed him. That letter did. That letter killed Marc.  He let go and he paid the price for it.
chris		If something ever happened to me-- you'd meet someone else. You'd be alright.
taya		Do you want to die? Is that what it is?
chris		No.
taya		 Then tell me why do you do it. I want to understand.
chris		I do it for you. To protect you.
taya		No you don't. I'm here. Your family is here. Your children have no father--
chris		Without this, there's nothing.
taya		Bullshit. It's not about us anymore. You don't know when to quit. It's over-  You did your part! We sacrificed enough. Let somebody else go--
chris		I could never live with myself.
taya		You find a way! You have to. I need you to be human again. I need you here.  If you leave again, we might not be here when you get back.
chris		I know.  Her eyes sink into a well of ruin.
chris		 Hey, buddy--
biggles		Chris? Where are you?
chris		I'm right here just give me a minute--  Just blind as a bat, huh?
biggles		Yeah... It fucking blows. They're gonna fix my face though.
chris		That's good. Your face always needed a little fixing.
chris		I heard you proposed? Did you tell Kelly the diamond was from Zales?
biggles		Naw, I bought a new one. A small one. Her dad helped me out.
chris		Nice.
biggles		She wouldn't leave me, bro. I told her to go-- but she wouldn't leave. 
chris		No she's not. How can you say that? She's getting you.  All four inches.
biggles		I'm glad this happened to me and not you. No way you could've handled it.
chris		You're probably right.
biggles		They say you're the deadliest sniper in U.S. Military history.
chris		Is that what they say?
chris		The bad guys fled up into to Sadr City.
biggles		You're not going back?
chris		We're gonna wall `em in and hunt `em down.
biggles		You don't have to do this.
chris		Yes I do. You're my brother and they're going to pay for what they did to you.
biggles		Hooyah, Legend. Hooyah--
chris kyle		You have to ask the Navy. I lost count.
chris		Any other Punishers here?
chris		 Teams and shit.
chris		I know. I visited him before I left. That fucker can't see shit.
chris message		I love you too.
chris		Is it Mustafa?
ranger one		Moo-who?
delta sniper		In the middle of a fucking sandstorm?
chris		What was that--
gate guard		Step away from the car!
tribal leader		 Tell the devil we found his Butcher. We will protect ourselves now.
chris		No--  It came from behind us. We went the wrong way. He's south of the wall.
chris		For Biggles.
chris kyle		Tango down.
ranger one		You just fucked us, Legend--  We need Stryker and QRF units, ASAP.
chris kyle		He was on our boys and I took him out.
ranger one		We are fucked like a football bat.
chris		There are two ways onto the roof. We cover both stairways and conserve ammo.
chris		Conserve--
ranger one		 Negative, negative, danger-close, they're all over us--
ranger one		 QRF is stuck three blocks out.
marine gunner		I'm out of ammo--
ranger one		I don't wanna get dragged in the street--
chris		Do it. Call in our coordinates.
ranger one		 I know my fucking position! They're right on top of us. Drop it!
marine sniper		White-side!
pilot		3-4, copy that. 30 seconds out.
chris		--you got four rounds.
taya		Hello?
chris		 Hey baby--
taya		Chris-- What's the noise?
taya		I can't hear you--
chris		I'm ready to come home. I'm ready...
taya		What's happening--
chris		--I'm coming home. Can you hear me?
taya		Chris--
chris		Go, go, let's move--
chris		 Stryker-3, what's your location--
chris		Hold there! We are 30 seconds out--  Go. Straight ahead. Go--
gunner		BDUs-- That's them! Drop the ramp.
driver		I don't see him--
chris		 --hello?
chris		 Yeah, I got out early.
chris		I'm here, I'm stateside.
chris		 I guess I just needed a minute.
chris		Yeah, I know... Me too. I'm coming.
chris		Yeah. I'm good.
chris		Okay.
taya		Chris...?
taya		--his game is Saturdays. He's the tallest kid on the team. The doctor said he could be six-four. I can't wait for you to see him play. Maybe you could even coach?
taya		McKenna's about to lose that tooth and I'm worried she's going to swallow it. She said she'd let you pull it. But only you.
boy's mom		Get him off! Get away--
doctor		Maybe you saw things, or did some things over there that you wish you hadn't--
chris		That's not me.
doctor		What's not you?
chris		I was just protecting my guys. They were trying to kill our soldiers and-- I'm willing to stand before my creator and answer for every shot I took.  The thing that haunts me are all the guys I couldn't save.
navy doctor		You want to save more guys, walk down any hall in this hospital. We got plenty soldiers that need saving.  I'm going to recommend Zoloft and--
chris		How's it feel?
wynn		Feels like The Legend is trying to fuck up my shot. Stay still, man.
wynn		Bulls-eye, boy! Damn, if that don't feel like I got my balls back.
wynn		Why you spend all this time with us? I know you got a family.
chris		I heard you had a nice boot collection before the war and--
wynn		 Seriously man. Why do you do it.
chris		We gotta take care of our own.
chris		Get `em up, lil' lady. Hands in the air.
taya		Can I tell you something.
chris		Tell it to the judge.
taya		I'm proud of you and I don't say it enough. I feel blessed. You're an incredible father and-- I feel lucky to have my husband back.
chris		We could lock the doors. They can't get out of the yard.
taya		I know how hard you fought to get here.
chris		You're worth fighting for.
taya		Did you pleat those jeans?
chris		Yes, ma'am. Right up the middle.
taya		Well, you're just a regular old cowboy again, aren't you?
chris		I meant what I said about locking the doors.
taya		Aren't you and Chad going to the range?
chris		 Not for four minutes.
taya		Is that all it takes.
chris		It'll take half that. Then I got two minutes leftover just to look at you.
taya		Who are you taking out?
chris		This Marine. His mom does parking at school and she asked for my help.
taya		Well don't be late for dinner.
colton		Dad, you want to play Skylander? Please--
chris		I gotta go do something but when I get back, okay? But you have to let me win.
colton		No way.
mckenna		Poke the bear--
mckenna		No. You're supposed to roar. Like Grrr.
chris		I should get going...
chris		Look after our women, Bubba.  Love you, babe.
taya		Love you too.
****Dialogues from script :american_splendor.txt****

harvey		 Joyce... Joyce?
joyce		What's wrong, Harvey? What are you doing up?
joyce		What is it?
harvey		 Tell me the truth. Am I some guy who writes about himself in a comic book? Or am I just -- am I just a character in that book?
joyce		Harvey...
harvey		If I die, will 'dat character keep goin'? Or will he just fade away...
joyce		Omigod, Harvey! Harvey, wake up!
boys		 Trick or treat!!
housewife		Well, look at this! All the superheroes on the porch! Ain't that cute.
housewife		 We got Superman here, Batman, his sidekick ROBIN, ohh, The Green Lantern even...
housewife		And what about you young man?
kid		What about what?
housewife		Who are you supposed to be?
kid		I'm Harvey Pekar .
housewife		Harvey Pekar? That doesn't sound like a super hero to me...
boys		 Pecker, Pecker...
kid		I ain't no super hero, lady. I'm just a kid from the neighborhood, alright?
kid		Ahh, forget this...
kid		Why is everybody so stoopid?
harvey		Doc, you gotta help me. My old lady's dumping me 'cause I can't talk. She says I'm a social embarrassment. Now that she's got her PhD, she's some hot shit academic star an' I'm nuthin' but a file clerk with nothin' ta say an' no voice ta say it. But me bein' a file clerk was fine when I wrote the damn check for her tuition --
harvey		I just don't get it... We were doin' okay for a while. Then we took that stupid belated honeymoon. I started losin' my voice on the plane. Can you believe that... On the plane, doc?
harvey		"Ahhh."  "Ahhh" ruined the trip. I got crazy, started to worry my voice would never come back. I mean, my wife didn't know me so long before we got hitched. What if she totally forgets what I'm like? Man, it's torture --
harvey		 What? Is it bad, doc?
harvey		It's cancer? First I got marital problems and now yer tellin' me I got throat cancer? Omigod...
harvey		Whew... Okay, okay. But fer how long?
harvey		 Months!!
toby		Hi Harvey. You weren't in work today. Are you okay, Harvey?
toby		 I'm heading downtown to the White Castle. Wanna come, Harvey?
harvey		 Look at 'em yakkin'. How do they do it?
harvey		 They all make it seem so easy.
harvey		 Ay... What is this?
lana		Exactly what it looks like.
harvey		 Ah, shit!
lana		Look, your plebeian lifestyle isn't working for me anymore. Cleveland's not working for me anymore. I gotta get out of here before I kill myself.
harvey		But --
harvey		 Please! Wait, honey... Just listen to what I got to say...
nurse		Thank you, Harvey dear.
harvey		 Plebeian... where the hell did she get that shit?
harvey		Huh? Oh. Hiya, Mr. Boats.
boats		You know what that means, son?
harvey		Yeah. It's from an Elinor Hoyt Wylie poem. It means stay away from the crowds of common ordinary people an' do yer own thing.
boats		Nope, it means don't compromise yourself for women. Ain't gonna do you no good! Get away from 'em as soon as you can!
harvey		Well I ain't got no woman now. So I'm living like the stoic bird, man.
harvey		Huh? That's an A.M.-F.M. radio he's listening to... They got 'em fixed up now like a pair of earmuffs.
harvey		Well, I don't know. Rock music's got some good qualities. I mean it ain't jazz or nothin'.
harvey		I don't got any of that, Mr. Boats...
marty		C'mon, Harv. You dig Jay McShann. You gonna buy that or what?
harvey		I don't know, Marty. It's got a lamination crack in it...  A quarter. Maybe I can get him down.
marty		You are one cheap bastard Harvey.
harvey		Yeah, I know I'm tight, man, but I live on a government wage.
crumb		You collect Jay McShann, man?
harvey		Yeah, man. How 'bout you?
crumb		Yeah but most of my records are back in Philly.
pahls		Harv, meet my buddy Bob Crumb. He just moved to town. He's an artist at American Greeting Card Company.
harvey		That's cool.
pahls		You should see his comics, Harv. They are outta sight.
harvey		 Yeah? I'm into comics myself.
harvey		It's terrific, man! I really dig your work.
crumb		 This PETER WHEAT book is by Walt Kelly... It's pretty rare.
harvey		Yeah? Can I get good bread for it?
crumb		Nah! Not yet.
harvey		Listen man, let's get back to your book. What are you gonna do with it?
crumb		 I hadn't thought about it. It's just an exercise.
harvey		It's more than an exercise. It's breaking ground, man. There's some wild shit in here.
crumb		You're spitting on me, Harvey.
crumb		 Check it out, man. Pretty scary.
harvey		Yeah, ya don't know the half of it.
harvey		I dunno, man. On the one hand most women gettin' graduate degrees wouldn't give a guy like me the time a' day. An' she married me an' everything, so I gotta give her some kinda credit. But then she got so mean to me in the end. An' it ain't like I tried t'keep her captive or anything like that, y'know?
harvey		An' then on top of it I lost my voice for three months. I still sound like shit, but before I had nothin'. Man, talk about hell. I started forgettin' what I sound like, y'know? So I started writin' stuff down -- stories an' things, my points a' view, ideas. I even published a couple jazz record reviews. I guess that ended up bein' a good thing.
crumb		Uh-huh.
harvey		But don't think I buy into this "growth" crap. Everybody talks about how bad experiences can cause ya t'grow, an' all that clichd stuff. I've had enough bad experiences and growth to last me plenty.  Right now, I'd be glad to trade some growth for happiness.
harvey		So how long are ya stayin' in Cleveland?
crumb		I dunno, man. I gotta go visit this chick in New York. And I'm really busy with the comic book stuff. It's good bread and all man but I'm getting fed up with the whole scene.
harvey		What are ya talkin' about? Yer makin' a good living doin' yer art? Sheesh. How many guys get that lucky in their life, huh?
crumb		Yeah, I dunno.
harvey		Ya know man, people are startin' to know the name "Crumb." When you croak you're gonna leave something behind.
crumb		Yeah, my ashes and some crappy doodles. It's not like I'm Blind Lemon Jefferson or Big Mama Thornton.
harvey		C'mon, man. It sure beats workin' a gig like mine -- being a nobody flunky and sellin' records on the side for a buck.
crumb		Yeah, well that's true...
harvey		Damn it!
harvey		I'm starvin'.
cashier		 Frank! I need a price check.
cartoon harvey		Man, Old Jewish Ladies will argue forever with a cashier about anything. Get behind them in a line an' yer gonna wait forever!
cartoon harvey		I mean, I'm a yid myself, an' the women in my family are like that... But I never got used to it... I may be cheap, but I got limits!
cartoon harvey		Wake up! You're whole life's gettin' eaten away by this kinda crap! What kind of existence is this? Is this all a workin' stiff like you can expect? Ya gonna suffer in silence fer the rest a' yer life?! Or ya gonna make a mark. Huh? Huh?
harvey		Shit. Work.
harvey		See, ever since I read your stuff, man I've been thinking I could write comic book stories that were different from anything being done.
crumb		 Uh-huh.
harvey		I'm thinkin', the guys who do animal comics and super-hero stuff are really limited 'cause they gotta try to appeal to kids. And underground comics like yours have been really subversive or opened things up politically. But there is still plenty more ta be done with 'em, too, y'know?
crumb		Pass me the ketchup?
harvey		I mean with pictures and words, it could be more of an art form. Like those French movies are. Or De Sica over in Italy, y'know?... So I tried writin' some things about real life. Stuff the everyman's gotta deal with.
crumb		These are about you.
harvey		Er, yeah...
crumb		You turned yourself into a comic hero?
harvey		Sorta, yeah. But no idealized shit. No phony bullshit. The real thing, y'know? Ordinary life is pretty complex stuff.
crumb		These are really good, Harv.
harvey		 Really? Ya think so?
crumb		Yeah. This is great stuff, man. I dig it. Can I take them home and illustrate them?
harvey		Wow!!
harvey		You'd do that for me, man? That'd be great! I can't draw a straight line!
crumb		Hey, what's up with your voice, Harv? All of a sudden it sounds fine.
harvey		 I don't know, man! I guess you cured me!
harvey		 See that? All stories by yours truly.
harvey		No way, Jack, I don't go in for that macho crap.
harvey		Nah! I don't draw. I just write the stories. A buddy of mine and some of his friends do the art work.
toby		Harvey, am I in here? You promised I would be in here.
harvey		Yeah! Yeah! You're in there, alright? Jeez, Toby.
toby		Mr. Boats, it's not polite to grab things. Next time --
marty		Hey look guys, here comes Captain America.
pahls		 You gonna hang with the boys now that yer a comic book star?
harvey		Cut it out. Man, I ain't nothin' yet compared to Bob Crumb.
pahls		Hey Harvey, if ya wanna make comics for adults, ya oughtta put some dirty stuff in it.
pahls		Yeah. Howdja do? Wudja git offa her?
marty		Ah, lousy. All's I got wuz armaround.
harvey		 I got a job... I got a job...
toby		Hi, Harvey. Do you want these gourmet jelly beans? I gave up sweets for lent.
harvey		Huh? Sure, I'll take 'em.
harvey		Hey, watermelon. That's pretty good.
toby		I recommend the pia coladas. They are excellent and very authentic tasting.
harvey		Hey Toby, can you eat lentils during lent?
toby		Sure. I don't see why not. You can't eat meat on certain days, but lentils should be acceptable anytime.
harvey		Ya think there's any connection between lentils and lent?
toby		I don't think so but I'll ask Sister Mary Fred at church on Sunday.
harvey		Sister Mary Fred, huh? Is she cute? Sounds kinda mannish but who am I to be picky.
toby		Harvey, you're funny. She's a nun.
harvey		So what? Maybe she became a nun because she couldn't get a guy.
toby		Harvey, she became a nun because she had a higher calling.
harvey		Higher calling. That is such a crock of shit. I don't know why you waste your time prayin' anyway.
toby		Well, Harvey, I like the ritual. And I'm a very spiritual person. You know, you should try believing in something bigger than yourself. It might cheer you up.
harvey		 What? Do I seem depressed, Toby?
harvey		 Yeah! I'll have two crullers, a jelly donut with powdered sugar... And you got any "day old bread"?
alice		Hey, you're Harvey Pekar.
harvey		Yeah...
alice		Alice Quinn. From school.
harvey		Oh yeah. College. We had a couple lit classes together.
alice		What happened to you? You just disappeared after one semester.
harvey		I know, man. I got good grades and all but there was this required math class. I can't do math, an' that required class hangin' over my head made me crazy. Eventually the pressure got to be too much.
alice		Well, you're doing okay anyway. I heard all about your jazz reviews and your comics.
harvey		Ya did?
alice		Sure, you're famous. Meanwhile I got my degree but I'm just a plain old wife and mother.
harvey		Yeah. I'm not doing as great as ya think. My second wife divorced me and I work at a dead end job as a file clerk. Sometimes I hang out with the guys on the corner but most of the time I just stay home by myself and read.
alice		You're luckier than you think. My husband and kids make it impossible for me to cuddle up with a good book.
harvey		I'm reading this book by Dreiser now -- JENNIE GERHARDT.
alice		That's one of my favorites.
harvey		I hope it don't end like so many a' those naturalist novels... With someone getting crushed ta earth by forces he can't control.
alice		I think you'll be pleasantly surprised. It's certainly not a Hollywood happy ending, but it's pretty truthful. Which is rare these days...
alice		This is me.
harvey		Nice car. I don't have one yet.
alice		Can I give ya a lift somewhere?
harvey		Nah. It's a nice day. I'll just walk.
alice		Well, we should have you over sometime for dinner.
harvey		Sure, I'd be glad t'come. But if you really wanna do me a favor, introduce me to some a' your single girlfriends. I bet they're all smart like you. I'm no catch, though, so I'll take anything you can get me.
alice		I'll work on it.
alice		Nice seeing ya Harvey.
joyce		What happened to the new American Splendor?
rand		We sold 'em, babe.
joyce		All of them?
rand		Yep.
joyce		 Damn it! I put one aside for myself, next to the register. I didn't even get a chance to read it.
rand		Whoa, sorry, Joyce. I didn't know you were such a Splendor fan. Next time take it home.
joyce		Maybe I'll call the publisher. But they take so damn long. Shit! Why does everything in my life have to be such a complicated disaster...
rand		Okay, I'm gonna hustle before the vibe in here gets any worse.
harvey		...man, she's got good lookin' handwritin'...
harvey		Dear Joyce, Thanks for the letter. Whattya do besides sellin' comics?
harvey		Look, I think you an' I got a lot in common. How am I gonna get you to come visit me in Cleveland?
harvey		It's a great idea. You should meet me, 'cause I'm a great guy. Despite the way my comics read, I got a lot of redeeming characteristics.
joyce		I don't know. Where would I stay?
joyce		I'm not worried about that...  Hold on, I just spilled chamomile tea all over my bathrobe.
joyce		 Well, the way all those different artists draw you, I don't quite know what to expect. I mean sometimes you look like a younger Brando, but then the way Crumb draws you -- like a hairy ape with all those stinky, wavy lines radiating off your body -- it's kind of scary.
joyce		That's a dangerous offer. I'm a notorious reformer...
joyce		Hi, Harvey. We finally meet in person.
harvey		Hiya. Look, before we get started with any of this, ya might as well know right off the bat. I had a vasectomy.
harvey		What's wrong?
joyce		Nothing.
harvey		Somethin's wrong. Yer lookin' around everywhere.
joyce		I guess I never imagined you eating in a place like this.
harvey		Me? I never been here. I thought you'd like it. But obviously ya don't, do ya?
joyce		It's fine. What difference does it make?
harvey		I dunno. None, I guess.  They sure got a lot of meat on this menu.
joyce		You're a vegetarian?
harvey		Kinda. I mean ever since I got a pet cat, I couldn't eat animals anymore.
joyce		Hmm. I support and identify with groups like PETA, but unfortunately I'm a self-diagnosed anemic. Also, I have all these food allergies to vegetables that give me serious intestinal distress. I guess I have a lot of borderline health disorders that limit me politically when it comes to eating.
harvey		Wow. Yer a sick woman, huh?
joyce		Not yet. But I expect to be. Everyone in my family's got some kind of degenerative illness.
waitress		 Good afternoon! I'm your server Cindy! What can I bring you two today?
harvey		Look, I was gonna clean up, but why should I give you any false notions? The truth is I got a serious problem with cleanliness. I could wash a dish ten times and it'd still dirty. They even kicked me outta the Army 'cause I couldn't learn ta make a bed.
joyce		I've seen worse.
joyce		Harvey, go get me water and a few aspirin.
harvey		What, ya got a headache?
joyce		No, but I want to avoid one.
harvey		Well lemme tell ya Joyce, it sure is nice ta have company. I mean, despite all your problems, you seem like a great person. An' hey, sorry if my dating skills are kinda rusty, but I've just been through hell and back with women. I mean that last one turned out to be a real nasty bitch.
joyce		I had a nice time with you, too.
harvey		Yeah? You had a nice time?
joyce		Don't make people repeat themselves. It's annoying.
harvey		Oh, sorry.
joyce		C'mere...
joyce		Harvey?
harvey		Yeah?
joyce		Which door's the bathroom?
harvey		Hey, Joyce! What's wrong? What is it?
joyce		Ugh! I don't know. I think that yuppie food did me in.
harvey		I feel terrible. Lemme at least do something for you.
harvey		Can I make ya something? How about some chamomile tea?
joyce		Chamomile tea? What the hell's a guy like you doing with that? I thought you drink soda pop for breakfast.
harvey		The girl at the Food Co-op picked me out all kinds of herbal stuff. One of 'ems good for stomachaches. Grandma Bear's Tummy Mint, I think. Are you still there?
joyce		Harvey, we better skip this whole courtship thing and just get married.
harvey		Man, am I glad I talked you into comin' up here. Any more time alone and I mighta lost it fer good.
joyce		Me too.
harvey		So you don't have any problems with movin' to Cleveland?
joyce		Not really. I find most American cities depressing in the same way.
harvey		An' yer okay with the vasectomy thing?
harvey		Ay Toby.
toby		 No you can't have any of my White Castle hamburgers so please don't even ask.
harvey		Can I have a fry?
toby		Okay, but just a couple, Harvey. I'm not going to eat dinner until very late and this has got to hold me over.
harvey		 Whattya got, a church function?
toby		No, I'm driving to Toledo to see a movie. Would you like to come?
harvey		Nah. I gotta fly to Delaware tonight. I'm gettin' married.
toby		Oh. Why Delaware?
harvey		The chick I'm marryin' is from Wilmington. Plus, I gotta help her move her stuff here.  Why you drivin' ta Toledo to see a movie?
toby		It's not playing at the Mapletown.  I didn't know you had a girlfriend, Harvey.
harvey		Yeah. We met last week.
harvey		Toby, what movie could possibly be worth drivin' 260 miles round trip for?
toby		It's a new film called "Revenge of the Nerds." It's about a group of nerd college students who are being picked on all the time by the jocks, so they decide to take revenge. I already saw it once.
harvey		Wow, ya really dig this movie.
toby		I like it a lot, Harvey.
harvey		What are these nerds like? How would you describe them?
toby		Hmm... Nerds are smart but they look and act differently than other people. Like nerds might wear polyester button- down shirts and flood pants where their ankles and their socks are showing.
harvey		So what yer sayin' is you identify with those nerds?
toby		 Yes, I consider myself a nerd. And this movie has uplifted me. There's this one scene where a nerd grabs the microphone during a pep rally and announces that he is a nerd and that he is proud of it and stands up for the rights of other nerds. Then, he asks the kids at the pep rally who think they are nerds to come forward... So nearly everyone in the place does. That's the way the movie ends.
harvey		So the nerds won, huh?
toby		 Yes.
harvey		Wow. You got this movie an' I'm gettin' hitched. We both had a good month, huh?
toby		 Right. Harvey, how long are you going to be in Delaware because I'd really like to see this movie with you?
harvey		I'm only goin' for a week but then I'll have a wife, so I'll have to take her along. Is it a girl flick?
toby		Depends on the girl. What kind of girl is your new bride? Is she a nerd?
harvey		I don't know, man. Maybe. She's into herbal teas.
joyce		I agree with Toby. I think it's a story of hope and tolerance.
toby		Yes. It's about time that the people who get picked on get to be the heroes.
harvey		It's an entertaining flick an' I can see why you like it Toby, but those people on the screen ain't even supposed to be you! They're college students whose parents live in big houses in the suburbs. They're gonna get degrees, get good jobs and stop being nerds.
joyce		Harvey, what did I say about loud talking? Use your inside voice.
harvey		 Look Toby, the guys in that movie are not 28-year-old file clerks who live with their grandmothers in an ethnic ghetto.
joyce		That's enough, Harvey.
harvey		They didn't get their computers like you did -- by trading in a bunch of box tops and $49.50 at the supermarket.
toby		You're funny Harvey.
harvey		Sure, Toby. Go to the movies and daydream, but "Revenge of the Nerds" ain't reality. It's just Hollywood bullshit.
real harvey		Y'see, I wasn't even married a month and my old lady was already showin' signs a' trouble. Granted, I tend ta get married fast 'cause I'll take any woman that'll have me, but this time I really met my match...
director		Okay, I think the thing with Joyce is that as manic as Harvey can be, she matches him with depression. In that way they complete each other. I mean, she's obviously a very smart woman, but she has a lot of trouble functioning in a world she can't control. And she's totally obsessed with all things negative; y'know, diseases, dysfuctions, etc.
joyce		What about these 78's, Harvey? Can't you sell them to one of those collectors?
harvey		Are ya kidding? No way, man. I ain't getting rid of my 78's.
joyce		 Forget it then. I give up! How can I make more storage space, if you won't get rid of anything?
harvey		I'll get rid of stuff. Just not my good stuff.
joyce		Everything's your good stuff. How am I supposed to live here, if there's no room for me?
harvey		Aw come on, baby. I'll make room for ya. You just have to give me time. I'm not so good at these kind of things.
joyce		That's because you're obsessive compulsive Harvey.
harvey		C'mon. I don't wanna hear that psychobabble crap!
joyce		I don't care if you wanna hear it or not. You're the poster child for the DSM III. I'll have you know that I come from a very dysfunctional family. I can spot personality disorders a mile away...
toby		Hello Joyce. Is Harvey home?
joyce		Borderline autistic!
joyce		Polymorphously Perverse.
joyce		Paranoid Personality Disorder.
answering machine		Please leave a message. 
joyce		 Delusions of grandeur.
harvey		I hate checkin' bags, man. It always takes forever.
harvey		Jesus, look at the time. The bus is gonna leave soon and there won't be another one for an hour. That means I gotta shell out an extra thirty bucks for a cab.
harvey		Hey wait, there's our --  Figures. That lucky Yuppie's gonna get on the bus in time.
joyce		Y'know Harvey, vasectomies are reversible.
harvey		 Damn Yuppies get everything.
joyce		 Are you listening to me? I said vasectomies are reversible.
harvey		What? Whattya talkin' about? I don't want kids. An' I came clean about my vasectomy the first time I set eyes on ya', right here in this airport.
joyce		I know but things have changed. I think we can be a family.
harvey		Family?! What kinda family could we possibly be? I ain't no good with kids. I can barely take care of myself.
joyce		I'll take care of the kid and you.
harvey		 No way Joyce. Forget it. I can't do it; I can't have no kids.
harvey		Where the hell is that Ornette Coleman album, Joyce? I got a review due tomorrow.
joyce		I didn't touch it, Harvey. Would you let me sleep?
harvey		But it's one o'clock! How late can a person sleep?
joyce		It happens to be Saturday you selfish sonofabitch! And don't you go telling me what to do. I'm the one who moved into your city, into your home, into your vasectomy and into your screwed- up life. The least you could do is allow me to live here my way.
harvey		 We can go out for dinner tonight. How 'bout catching a bite at Tommy's?
joyce		 I'm not hungry.
harvey		I give up.
harvey		Hey Joyce, we got a message here. Why didn't you pick up.
harvey		Useless.
male voice		Hi, this is a message for Harvey Pekar. My name is Jonathan Greene and I'm a producer for LATE NIGHT WITH DAVID LETTERMAN. We'd like to talk to you about coming on the show to plug your comics. Please give me
male voice		Hi, this is a message for Harvey --
harvey		Aw, c'mon. Who the hell cares?
harvey		Hey, whattya doin?
joyce		Merchandising.
joyce		People like this show?
harvey		I'm gettin' hungry back here. They oughtta leave ya donuts or somethin'.
stage manager		Dave's ready for you now, Mr. Pekar.
harvey		Hey, you got anything ta eat? My stomach's growling.
stage manager		 There's no time to eat now.
letterman		Okay. Our next guest works as a file clerk in a Cleveland hospital.
joyce		Wait a minute. Where's the doll?
harvey		He's got it at the desk. Will you relax about that already?
stage manager		Guys, guys, we're in a hurry here.
letterman		...He also writes comic books which detail his day-to-day pains and pleasures, and this is an anthology of nine of those comics. It's entitled AMERICAN SPLENDOR... From off the streets of Cleveland, please say hello to Harvey Pekar.
harvey		I'm ready for those Cleveland jokes. Go ahead...
letterman		Alright settle down Harvey. Settle down.  Now let's explain to folks who may not be familiar with your work what it is you do here, exactly. You have comic books about you in your daily life in Cleveland.
harvey		That's right.
letterman		And are they embellished at all or is it pretty much factual?
harvey		 No. It's all true, David. All true.
letterman		And you also have a regular job in Cleveland working at a hospital.
harvey		That's right. Aiding the sick, yes.
letterman		Aiding the sick. Well that's certainly noble work.
harvey		Thank you. Thank you.
joyce		 Such brilliant repartee...
letterman		Now it seems to me Harvey that you have a very successful career here. This is being published by a major publishing company, Doubleday. Why do you maintain the day job?
harvey		 I don't make a living as a writer. I've been writing for many years, David. Maybe more years than you've been alive.
harvey		Yeah, I know that my youthful appearance belies, you know, my actual age. But, I've been around for a long time --
letterman regular		 You know this guy?
joyce		I'm beginning to wonder.
letterman		But I have a feeling though, if you wanted to, you could probably get by on what you make selling your work. Because I know people are after you to write other things. You're publishing this anthology...
harvey		Who? What people? What people? What are you talking about? Where the hell do you get that stuff?
harvey		I'm no show biz phoney. I'm telling the truth. Come on, man.
letterman regular		 At least he's keeping up with Letterman.
joyce		Pandering is more like it.
joyce		Damnit.
letterman regular		Excuse me, but what are you doing?
joyce		I'm trying to get some news. You know there's a big story about to break about the US selling arms to Iran and the Contras.
letterman regular		That's a monitor.
joyce		Ugh. Just forget it.
letterman		Harvey, I know you've got a job. I've got a job. We're both very lucky. We both have jobs.
harvey		Then what's the matter?
letterman		We've gotta go. Harvey I like you. I'm on your side. I enjoy the comic books. And here, quickly tell us about the little doll here.
harvey		My wife made it.
joyce		Finally something good.  Watch this.
letterman		They're made out of your old clothing.
harvey		That's right.
letterman		And what do these go for?
harvey		Thirty-four bucks.
letterman		 Thirty-four dollars? Thirty-four dollars for this?
harvey		What are ya cheap. You cheaper than me?
letterman		Would you pay thirty-four dollars for that?
harvey		No but I'm not asking it. My wife is.
stage manager		He's a natural.
letterman regular		He is. Good stuff.
stage manager		C'mon. Your turn.
harvey		Whad'ya think?
joyce		Megalomaniac.
letterman		Harvey, you are the embodiment of the American dream...
letterman		It is my pleasure to welcome back our next guest, the lovable Harvey Pekar!
letterman		Tell me Harvey, what do you do to get away from the pressure of being -- well, a file clerk? 
harvey		Go ahead and laugh, folks. But he has more contempt for you than I do!
mtv director		Christ! Watch where you're going!
harvey		 Fuckin' yuppie or whatever kinda freak you are.
toby		Hamburgers are a safer addiction than drugs. Say no to drugs. Say yes to White Castle!
joyce		 Harvey, I've been reading about these kids who grew up in war zones... Palestinians, Israelis, El Salvadorians, Cambodians... These kids are amazing and they're --
yuppie		Hey, you're that guy from the Letterman show, right?
harvey		 Yeah, that's me.
yuppie		That's so excellent. You and Stupid Pet Tricks are a riot.
harvey		Yeah? Then why dontcha buy one of my comics, man. That's the only reason I go on that dumb show anyway.
yuppie		Right, sure. Later, Harvey Pekar!
harvey		Asshole.
joyce		Anyway, I want to do a political comic book about these kids. There's a conference in Jerusalem in a few weeks, and I can start by doing interviews there.
harvey		Whoa whoa, wait a second. Jerusalem? I can barely drag you off the futon to go to the Letterman show.
joyce		Y'know why? 'Cause I don't give a damn about the Letterman show. I want to work on something important to me. Something that matters.
harvey		 Hey! You know I only go on the show for the extra bread!
joyce		Harvey... you're yelling...
harvey		Maybe if you got yer lazy ass up and got a job, I could work on something that matters, too, huh?!
harvey		I'm sorry, baby. I -- I'm sorry...
harvey		This is crazy. Can't ya just do somethin' here in Cleveland?
joyce		Harvey, you'll survive a few weeks alone.
harvey		Alright... Be careful. I love you, baby.
harvey		What do I care! Just gimme the chart already!
miguel		What is your problem today?!
harvey		Look, Miguel! I just don't wanna keep comin' back here for it, okay?!
miguel		Harvey, that patient's due t'be admitted a week from now! Why do you always have to be picking fights with everybody?
harvey		 How many times do we gotta go through the same bullshit. Just gimme the fuckin' chart!
miguel		We'll see what the doctor says about this.
harvey		 Whadya mean? Another two weeks? Ya gotta come home some time! Hello? DAMNIT!
harvey		 Okay, asshole. You'll pay for that one...
stage manager		Joe, put more sodas in the fridge, there. And let's clean up the counters. That Pekar guy's a pig.
joyce		I guess you did it this time.
harvey		Who cares. He wasn't helpin' my sales anyway.  Baby, don't go away anymore. I just can't take bein' alone.
joyce		If you met those kids over there and saw what they go through, you wouldn't ask that of me.
harvey		But if you go again I'm really gonna lose it.
joyce		It's not open for discussion, Harvey. I need this in my life right now.
joyce		But I do appreciate the fact that you missed me so much. C'mere...
joyce		Harvey, what is that?
joyce		I don't understand, does "tumor" mean the same thing as "cancer"?
harvey		How can I have cancer? I don't feel sick at all.
joyce		That's a positive thing.
harvey		My cousin Norman died of lymphoma. He was twenty-nine. He was a brilliant oncologist.
joyce		Stop it! You're not going to die, Harvey. You're not.
harvey		What's going to happen to you, baby? Who's gonna take care of you if I'm not around?
joyce		Harvey, look at me and focus. We are going to get through this. I understand illness. I know how to handle these things.
harvey		But that's you. I'm not strong enough. I don't know how ta be positive. I can't do it. I can't.
joyce		Yes, you can. And I'll tell you how. You'll make a comic book out of the whole thing. You'll document every little detail. And that way you'll remove yourself from the experience until it's over.
harvey		I can't do that. I'm just not strong enough... I just wanna die.
joyce		Fine. I'll do it without you.
fred		Hey, I'm Fred. You called me about the comic book?
joyce		Right -- the artist. Come on in.
fred		This is my daughter, Danielle. I had to bring her along. I hope you don't mind.
joyce		Hi, Danielle. What's that you're holding?
danielle		A pony.
joyce		A pony? What's his name?
danielle		She's a girl. Clarissa.
joyce		Oh, I see. Well, I'm Joyce. Nice to meet both you and Clarissa.
fred		I'm really sorry to hear about Harvey. Is he here?
joyce		He's going to work until next week, when he starts the chemo. That's why I wanna get this project started now. Once he's stuck here, I know he'll take over.
harvey		Shit!
harvey		Damnit!
harvey		Joyce, open the door! I lost my keys again! Joyce!!
harvey		Joyce!! Open the fucking door!!
fred		Hey, Harvey.
harvey		Fred?
fred		Here are some ideas we batted around.
harvey		Sheesh. Joyce doesn't know what she's doing. There's too many words in these frames. When are ya comin' back?
fred		Uh, she said something about next Tuesday, which is fine with me. Only thing is, I might have the kid again. My ex-wife's supposed to take her, but I don't have much faith in her showing up. She is in worse shape than me these days.
harvey		Next week my treatment begins. Do me a favor. Bring the kid with you.
harvey		I wanna die... just let me die...
harvey		 Joyce... Joyce?
joyce		What's wrong, Harvey? What are you doing up?
joyce		What is it?
harvey		 Tell me the truth. Am I some guy who writes about himself in a comic book? Or am I just -- just a character in that book?
joyce		Harvey...
harvey		When I die, will 'dat character keep goin'? Or will he just fade away.
joyce		Omigod, Harvey! Harvey, wake up!
harvey		My name is Harvey Pekar. It's an unusual name -- Harvey Pekar...
harvey		1960 was the year I got my first apartment and my first telephone book. Imagine my surprise when I looked up my name and saw that, in addition to me, another Harvey Pekar was listed!
harvey		I was listed as Harvey L. Pekar... My middle name is Lawrence... He was listed as Harvey Pekar -- no middle initial... Therefore, his was a purer listing.
harvey		Then, in the seventies, I noticed that a third Harvey Pekar was listed in the phone book! This filled me with curiosity.
harvey		How could there be three people with such an unusual name in the world, let alone in one city?!
harvey		Then one day, a person I worked with expressed her sympathy to me concerning what she thought was the death of my father. She pointed out an obituary notice in the newspaper for a man named Harvey Pekar. One of his sons was named Harvey. These were the other Harvey Pekars.
harvey		Six months later, Harvey Pekar Jr. died. Although I'd met neither man, I was filled with sadness. "What were they like," I thought. It seemed that our lives had been linked in some indefinable way.
harvey		But the story does not end there. For two years later another Harvey Pekar appeared in the directory. What kind of people are these? Where do they come from, what do they do? What's in a name?
harvey		Who is Harvey Pekar?
harvey		Hey Joyce.
joyce		What is it Harvey?
harvey		That was the doctor.
harvey		He said I'm all clear.
harvey		Ya keep readin' 'em backward.
danielle		I like reading them backward.  Is that you?
harvey		I keep tellin' ya, all of 'ems me, man.
danielle		You look like a monster.
harvey		Yeah, well wait'll ya see what you're gonna look like.
danielle		Me??
harvey		Sure. Yer part of the story too, now.
danielle		What story?
harvey		The story of my life.
harvey		Yeah, I know I'm not as interesting as The Little Mermaid and all that magical crap...
danielle		Maybe I want to write my own comic.
harvey		Oh yeah? What about?
danielle		I don't know yet. But not about you. You have enough already.
harvey		Ya know, you should write about things in your own life. Like school and... ponies... I don't know, girl stuff...
danielle		 Do you have to hold my hand?
harvey		 What, are you embarrassed a' me? I know, I'm embarrassing. I felt the same way about my father.
danielle		No Harvey. You're just squeezing it too hard.  Joyce is right. You are obsessive compulsive.
****Dialogues from script :american_werewolf_in_london.txt****

fade in		 1    MAN'S FOOTPRINT  on the moon.  EXT. MOON  Camera begins to pull back slowly, straight up - the song "Moon Shadow" by Cat Stevens begins.  Once we are high enough to see the entire moon, the main title is superimposed.  An American Werewolf in London  We continue to retreat from the moon, looking on as it grows farther from us, continuing credits until the full moon is the size it appears to us from earth.  2    EXT. CROSSROADS ON THE MOORS - NIGHT  Tree branches enter into the frame, the camera pans down and we see a truck approaching.  We are at a crossroads in the moors, looking sinister enough to have earned their literary reputation.  The truck stops at the crossroads, the DRIVER, mustached and wearing tweeds, boots, and a muffler, climbs down.  "Moon Shadow" ends.
truck driver		Here, lads, East Proctor and all about are the moors.  I go east here.
jack		Yes, well thank you very much for the ride, sir.  You have lovely sheep.
truck driver		 Boys, keep off the moors. Stay on the road.  Good luck to you.
david		Thanks again!
jack		Are you cold?
david		Yes.
jack		Good.
david		Jack.
jack		David.
david		You're not having a good time are you?
jack		Oh, I don't know.  I mean look around.  Isn't this a fun place?
david		Well, I like it here.
jack		I'm sorry.  Northern England first, Italy later.
david		Right.
david		I think Debbie Klein is a mediocre person with a good body.
jack		Debbie is not mediocre and she has one of the great bodies of all time.
david		She's a jerk.
jack		You're talking about the woman I love.
david		I'm talking about a girl you want to fuck, so give me a break.
jack		Well, anyway, do you think she'll be there?
david		I don't know.
jack		 Rendezvous in Rome starring Jack Goodman and Debbie Klein. The love affair that shocked Europe!  See torrid lovemaking at its most explicit!  See Jack and Debbie expose their lust in the sacred halls of the Vatican!  Never has the screen dared....
david		If you don't stop, I'm going to kill you.
jack		I have to make love to her. It's very simple.  She has no choice really.
david		It just fascinates me that you can spend so much energy on someone so dull.
jack		It is impossible for a body like that to be dull.
david		We've known Debbie what, since the eighth grade?  How many years of foreplay is that?
jack		She says she `likes me too much'.
dissolve		TO:
jack		The Slaughtered Lamb?
david		Of course, The Slaughtered Lamb.  Why else would they have a severed fox head on a spear as their symbol?
jack		That's a wolf's head.
david		Of course, The Slaughtered Lamb.  Why else would they have a severed wolf's head on a spear as their symbol?
jack		That's not a spear.  It's a pike.
david		A severed wolf's head on a pike as their symbol.
jack		David, before we go in there I want you to know that - no matter what happens to us - it's your fault.
david		I assume full responsibility.
jack		Okay.
david		Shall we?
david		Hello.
jack		Nice to see you.
david		 It's very cold outside.  May we come in?
jack		Do you have any hot soup?
woman		No.
david		Well, do you have any coffee?
woman		No.
jack		Hot chocolate? WOMAN We've got spirits and beer. If it's something hot you want, you can have tea.
jack		Then you have some hot tea?
woman		No.
jack		Oh.
woman		But I can heat some up for you if you'd like.
jack		Nice looking group.
david		Listen, at least it's warm in here.
jack		Look at that.
david		What about it?
jack		It's a five-pointed star.
david		Maybe the owners are from Texas.
jack		 Remember the Alamo?
woman		I beg your pardon?
david		He was joking.  Thank you.
woman		Joking?  I remember The Alamo. I saw it once in London, in Leicester Square.
chess player		She means in the cinema, that film with John Wayne.  Checkmate.
david		Oh, yes, of course.
jack		Right, with Laurence Harvey and everybody died in it.  It was very bloody.
chess player		Bloody awful if you ask me!
chess player		Here, Gladys, Tom.  Did you hear the one about the crashing plane?
woman		No, but we're about to.
chess player		You be quiet, woman, and let me speak.
woman		 Quiet, everyone!  Hush!  Shhh!
chess player		All right, laugh then.  I shan't tell it.
woman		Oh, come on, tell us.
chess player		No.  You've had your chance.
jack		 Ask them what the candles are for.
david		 You ask them.
jack		 Listen, that's a pentangle, a five-pointed star.  It's used in witchcraft.  Lon Chaney, Jr. and Universal Studios maintain it's the mark of the wolf man.
david		 I see.  You want me to ask these people if they're burning candles to ward off monsters.
jack		 Right.
david		 Wrong. The drinkers have gotten the Chess Player to tell the joke as everyone knew he would.
chess player		Oh, all right.  There was this airplane over the Atlantic on its way to New York.  It was full of men from the United Nations.
woman		That's very funny, that is.
jack		 Go on, ask them.
david		 You ask them.
chess player		Here now, let me finish!  So halfway over the ocean the engines run low on petrol so they have to lighten the plane.  So they heave out all the baggage, but it's still too heavy.  So they chuck out the seats, but it's still too heavy!  Finally this Froggy steps up and shouts "Viva la France" and leaps out.  Then an Englishman....
dart players		Hear!  Hear!
chess player		 ...steps up and shouts `God save the Queen!' and leaps out.  But the plane is still too heavy.  So the Yank delegate from Texas steps up, shouts, `Remember the Alamo!' and chucks out the Mexican.
jack		Excuse me, but what's that star on the wall for?
dart player		 You've made me miss.
jack		I'm sorry.
dart player		I've never missed the board before.
david		Jack, we'd better go.
jack		What do you mean?  I'm starving.
dart player		There's no food here.
david		Come on, Jack, shall we go?!!
jack		Apparently so.
woman		 You can't let them go.
david		 How much do we owe you?
chess player		Nothing, lads.  Go, God be with you.
david		Uh, thank you.
woman		Wait!  You just can't let them go!
dart player		Go!  And stay on the road. Keep clear of the moors.
david		Yes, well, thanks again.
chess player		Beware the moon, lads!
jack		What the hell was that all about?
david		I don't know.  Let's see if there's an inn or something up the road.
jack		Beware the moon?
david		Come on, I'm freezing.
woman		You can't let them go.
dart player		 Should the world know our business?!
chess player		It's murder then.
dart player		Then murder it is!  It's in God's hands now.
dissolve		TO:
david		That was weird.  I guess leaving was the best idea.
jack		I don't know.  Now that we're out here and it's three degrees, I'm not so sure I wouldn't rather face a blood- thirsty mob.
david		Well, not quite a blood- thirsty mob.
jack		What do you think was wrong?
david		I have no idea.
jack		Maybe that pentangle was for something supernatural.
david		I see and they were too embarrassed to talk about it, because they felt so silly. There is a flash of lightning that sends a ghostly illuminating sheet of light over the boys' faces.  The clap of thunder follows loud and rumbling.
david		Please don't rain.
david		Of course.
jack		Say, David....
david		I'm well aware of how pleasant the weather is in Rome at the present time thank you.
jack		Santa Lucia...Santa Lucia.
woman		Perhaps they'll be safe in the rain.
chess player		No one brought them here!  No one wanted them here!
woman		You could have told them!
dart player		Are you daft?  What do you think they'd say?  They'd think us mad.
woman		Listen!
woman		Did you hear it?  We must go to them.
dart player		I heard nothing.
chess player		Nor I.
jack		Did you hear that?
david		I heard that.
jack		What was it?
david		Could be a lot of things.
jack		Yeah?
david		A coyote.
jack		There aren't any coyotes in England.
david		The Hound of the Baskervilles.
jack		Pecos Bill.
david		Heathcliffe.
jack		Heathcliffe didn't howl.
david		No, but he was on the moors.
jack		It's a full moon, `beware the moon'.
jack		I vote we go back to The Slaughtered Lamb.
david		Yeah.
david		We're lost.
jack		Shit!  David, what is that?
david		I don't know.  Come on.
jack		Come on, where?
david		Anywhere!  I think we should just keep moving.
david		It's moving.
jack		It's circling us.
jack		Fuck.
david		What's the plan?
jack		 Plan?
david		 Let's just keep walking.
david		That's right, a lovely stroll in the moors.  Tra-la-la, isn't this fun?
david		It's in front of us.
jack		Do you think it's a dog?
jack		Oh shit.  What is that?
david		A sheep dog or something. Turn slowly and let's walk away.
jack		Nice doggie.  Good boy.
david		Walk away, Jack.
jack		Walking away, yes, sir.  Here we are walking away.
david		See anything?
jack		No.
david		It sounds far away.
jack		Not far enough.  Come on.
david		Jack?
jack		Yeah.
david		Where are we going?
jack		I'll tell you when we get there.
david		Well.  I'm glad we...WHOAA!!
jack		You really scared me, you shithead.
david		Are you going to help me up?
jack		Jesus fuck!  David!  Please help me!  Please!  David! Shit!  Help me!  Oh God!
david		Jack?  Oh my God, Jack!
david		Jack....
david		Jack?!
alex		Mr. Kessler?
alex		Mr. Kessler?
miss gallagher		He all right?
alex		Yes, I should think.  He called out just now.
miss gallagher		He's an American, you know. Dr. Hirsch is going to fetch round one of those Embassy fellows to see him.
alex		Chart says he's from New York.
miss gallagher		I think he's a Jew.
alex		Why on earth do you say that?
miss gallagher		I looked.
alex		 Really, Susan, I don't think that was very proper, and besides, it's common practice now.
alex		Dr. Hirsch, Mr. Kessler cried out a minute ago.
miss gallagher		Yes, Doctor.
miss gallagher		Yes, Doctor.
alex		Dr. Hirsch?
alex		Yes, Doctor.
alex		Yes, Doctor?
alex		He said `Jack'.
alex		What happened to them?
alex		No, sir.  Of course, sir. Good day, Doctor.
david		Where am I?
david		London?  Where's Jack?  I had a strange dream.
david		The guy I was with.  Is he all right?  How did I get to London?
david		What?
david		Ow, shit!
david		Jack's dead?
david		Everything's in order?  What are you talking about?
david		 Who the hell are you people? What's going on here?  Where is Jack?  I demand to see him!
david		 Get your fucking hands off me! What the hell is going on here?
david		How long have I been here?
david		Two weeks?
david		 Lunatic?
david		 It wasn't a lunatic.
alex		 I beg your pardon?
david		It was a wolf.
alex		 What?
david		A wolf.
alex		Yes, I believe he did.
david		I'm sorry if I conflict with your report, but Jack and I were not attacked by a man.
david		There were witnesses?
david		How could there have been witnesses?  It was so dark. We were running and I fell and Jack went to help me up and this thing came from nowhere...I don't understand what they're talking about.
david		Doctor, my memory is fine. It's my sanity I'm beginning to worry about.
cut back		TO:
cut back		TO:
miss gallagher		Mr. Kessler?  Wake up, please.
david		 I was having a nightmare.
miss gallagher		Yes, well these should help that.  That's right, drink up.
miss gallagher		Now go back to sleep so you'll be fresh for Dr. Hirsch in the morning.
david		What time is it?
miss gallagher		It's nearly eight.  I'm off duty shortly, then I'm off to the films with Alex.
david		Alex?
miss gallagher		Miss Price, the other nurse that attended you.
david		What are you going to see?
miss gallagher		An American film about the Mafia called `See You Next Wednesday', and I want to see it badly, so you give me no problems and go to sleep.
david		 Do you have bad dreams, too?
miss gallagher		Some, everyone does.
david		Yes, but does everyone kill Bambi?
miss gallagher		Bambi?
miss gallagher		Kill Bambi?
alex		Yes, Mrs. Hobbs.
alex		Has he been refusing food?
alex		Yes, Mrs. Hobbs.
alex		Hello, Benjamin.
benjamin		No.
alex		No what?
benjamin		No.
alex		Well, all right then, be that way.  Here, swallow this.
benjamin		No. Alex pours a glass of water, gives the pill to Benjamin who promptly takes it and then drinks the water, handing Alex back the glass.
alex		Feeling better?
benjamin		No.
alex		The doctor will be round later.  Would you like a picture book to look at?  We have some lovely funny Beanos.
benjamin		No.
alex		Right.
alex		Has the patient in twenty-one gotten his tray yet?
orderly		The American?  Yes, duck.
alex		How did he look?
orderly		What do you mean, `how did he look'?
alex		You know, did he seem depressed?  Do you think he'll eat the food?
orderly		 I'm an orderly, not a bleeding psychiatrist!  I push things about, but I've little say what happens to them.
alex		Thank you.
alex		 Mr. Kessler?
david		 Yes?
alex		You haven't eaten your lunch.
david		I'm not very hungry, thank you.
alex		I'm afraid you have to eat something.
david		Please, really.  I'm not hungry.
alex		You put me in an awkward position, Mr. Kessler.
david		How is that?
alex		 Well, you're to take these after you've eaten.  Now what kind of nurse would I be if I failed in so simple a task as giving out some pills?
david		Leave the pills.  I'll take them later.
alex		Sorry.
david		Aw come on, Miss Price!
alex		Call me Alex.
david		Aw come on, Alex!
alex		Shall I be forced to feed you, Mr. Kessler?
david		Call me David.
alex		Shall I be forced to feed you, David?
david		This is absurd.  I'm not hungry.  I don't want any food.
alex		Right.
alex		Let's try a little harder, shall we?
david		Will you give me a break?
alex		Will I have to take such drastic action again, David?
david		May I have a glass of milk?
david		 Sure, as a kid.  But never so real.  Never so bizarre.
david		I've told you, it wasn't a man.  It was an animal.  A big wolf or something.  A rabid dog.
david		Look, Dr. Hirsch, I know I've been traumatized, but Jack was torn apart.  I saw him.  A man can't do that to someone with his bare hands.
david		Did you see Jack?
david		Did you talk to the police in East Proctor?  Did the cops go to The Slaughtered Lamb?
david		Then why the hell are you so quick to disbelieve me?  You yourself said it must have taken incredible strength to tear apart a person like that. DR. HIRSCH  David, please.  The police are satisfied.  I'm certain that if a monster were out roaming northern England we'd have seen it on the telly.
david		You really think I'm crazy, don't you?
david		Dr. Hirsch?  I'd rather not be by myself.
dissolve		TO:
david		 You're a very beautiful girl.
alex		 I thought you were asleep.
david		I was.  What are you reading?
alex		`A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court' by Mark Twain.
david		Do you like it?
alex		I've just started it.  My friend gave it to me.
alex		What do you dream about?
david		I dream of death mostly.
alex		I'm sorry.  I shouldn't have asked you.
david		It's okay.  I want to talk to you.
david		How old are you?
alex		That's not really a very proper question.
david		How old are you?
alex		Twenty-eight.
david		I'm twenty-seven.
alex		I know.
david		Now what do you want to talk about?
alex		Was Jack Goodman your good friend?
david		 My best friend.  My very best friend.
alex		 Shall I read to you?
david		What?  Oh, yes, please.
alex		 A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court by Samuel L. Clemens.  This is after the preface but before chapter one: A Word of Explanation. You all right?
david		 Yes, go on.
alex		 Ahem, A Word of Explanation. It was in Warwick Castle that I came across the curious stranger whom I am going to talk about.  He attracted me by three things: his candid simplicity, his marvelous familiarity with ancient armor, and the restfulness of his company - for he did all the talking.  We fell together as modest people will in the tail of the herd....
dissolve		TO:
father		I'll get it.
father		All right, all right!  Hold your horses.
david		Stop!
alex		 Hello.  You all right?
david		I'm sorry I woke you up.
alex		Don't be silly.  Can I get you something?
david		No, thank you.  Just keep me company for a while.
alex		That's easy enough.
david		I keep having these really terrible dreams.  They are getting worse and I can't seem to stop them.
alex		David, your dreams will stop. You'll leave England and your bad memories; and then this will all fade away.
david		Will you come with me?
alex		 What?
david		 I'm serious.  You don't know me and I know nothing about you.  We have a perfect relationship.
alex		Now, David, I said I would keep you company, but I meant right here and now.
david		Will you think about it?
alex		How did we get from your bad dreams to my taking a holiday with a patient?
david		 Not just a patient -- me.
alex		You're being awfully forward, aren't you?
david		Forgive me, I'm trying to cheer myself up and an affair with a beautiful nurse seemed like just the thing to do it.
alex		 All I am to you is a sex fantasy then?
david		Now I'm embarrassed.
alex		Good.  I thought for a moment I was the only embarrassed one in the room.
david		Where were we in the book?
alex		 Let me see here.
orderly		Ah you're up.  Good morning and a good day to you.  We've quite a meal for you here this morning.  Bacon, oatmeal, orange juice, and toast with jam.  Good stuff there.  Now eat it up and I'll be back for the dishes when you've finished.
david		Good morning.
david		 Please, sir, I want some more.
jack		 Nice to see you.
david		 Get the fuck out of here, Jack.
jack		Thanks a lot.
david		 This is too much.  I can't handle this.
jack		I'm aware that I don't look so great, but I thought you'd be glad to see me.
jack		David!  You're hurting my feelings.
david		 Hurting your feelings?  Has it occurred to you that it may be unsettling to have you rise from your grave to visit me? Listen to me, I'm talking to a hamburger!
jack		I'm sorry to be upsetting you, David, but I had to come.
david		 Aren't you supposed to be buried in New York someplace?
jack		Yeah.  Your parents came to my funeral.  I was surprised at how many people came.
david		 Why should you be surprised? You were a very well-liked person.
jack		Debbie Klein cried a lot.
david		I can't stand it.
jack		So you know what she does? She's so grief stricken she runs to find solace in Rudy Levine's bed.
david		Rudy Levine the shmuck?
jack		Life mocks me even in death.
david		 I'm going completely crazy.
jack		 David!
david		 What?!
jack		David, now I know this may be hard for you, but I have to warn you.
david		 Warn me?  Will you get out of here, you meat loaf?
jack		I'm a grisly sight, it's true; but I love you and that's why I'm here.  You've got to know.
david		If you love me so much, Jack, you'll realize how disconcerting it is to share one's breakfast with the living dead!
jack		We were attacked by a werewolf.
david		 I'm not listening!
jack		On the moors, we were attacked by a lycanthrope, a werewolf.
david		Shut up, you zombie!
jack		I was murdered, an unnatural death, and now I walk the earth in limbo until the werewolf's curse is lifted.
david		 What's wrong with you?  Shut up!
jack		The wolf's bloodline must be severed.  The last remaining werewolf must be destroyed.
david		Will you be quiet?!
jack		It's you, David.
david		What?!
jack		You survived and now you shall continue the curse.
david		What are you talking about?  I won't accept this!  Get out! God damit!
jack		Remember what that guy at The Slaughtered Lamb said? `Beware the moon.'
david		 Stop it, Jack.
jack		Beware the moon.  The full moon, David.  You've got two days.
david		 Jack, please go away.  Please go away.
jack		You'll stalk the streets of London a creature of the night.
david		 You're talking like Boris Karloff!  It's movie dialogue!
jack		David, please believe me.  You will kill people, David. You've got to stop the bloodshed before it begins.
david		 Nurse!
jack		Listen to me!  Take your own life, David.  It's our only chance.
david		Nurse!
jack		The supernatural!  The powers of darkness!  It's all true. Take your own life!  Suicide, David.  Join me.
david		 Nurse!  Oh God!  Alex!
jack		It's cold, David, and I'm so alone.  The undead surround me.  Have you ever talked to a corpse?  It's boring!  I'm lonely!  Kill yourself, David, before you kill others.
jack		Don't cry, David.
jack		Please don't cry.
jack		 Beware the moon, David.
alex		David?  David!
alex		David, what's wrong?
david		 I'm a werewolf.
alex		A werewolf?
alex		Are you better now?
david		I'll let you know the next full moon.
alex		You're to be discharged tomorrow.  Will you be all right?
david		My friend Jack was just here.
alex		Your dead friend Jack?
david		Yeah.  He says that I will become a monster in two days. What do you think?
alex		What do I think?  You mean about the possibility of your becoming a monster in two days or about visits from dead friends?
david		I was dreaming again?
alex		I would think so.
david		 Yeah, I would think so, too.
alex		Do you have a place to stay in London?
david		Very nice.
alex		Closet.
david		Charming.
alex		Bathroom.
david		Lovely.
alex		The bedroom.
david		There is only one bed.
alex		 David, perhaps you'd like to watch the telly while I take a shower.
david		It's nice to see you.
alex		It's nice to see you.
david		Alex?
alex		Yes?
david		Will you be here in about fifteen minutes?
alex		Of course.
david		 Good.
alex		David, you don't honestly believe that in reality your friend Jack rose from the grave to breakfast with you? Do you really?
david		I was awake and he was in my room.
alex		But, David.
david		 I wasn't hallucinating.
alex		 Tomorrow is the full moon.
david		That's good, Alex.  Reassure me.
david		It's all right, I know I'm being insane.
david		Okay, okay.  I'm properly reassured!
david		 This is very reassuring.  I'm feeling very reassured.
dissolve		TO:
david		 You're not real.
jack		Don't be an asshole, David. Come here.
david		What are you doing here?
jack		I wanted to see you.
david		Okay, you've seen me.  Now go away.
jack		David, I'm sorry I upset you yesterday, but you must understand what is going on.
david		I understand all right. You're one of the undead and I'm a werewolf.
jack		Yes.
david		Get out of here, Jack!
jack		David, tomorrow night is the full moon.  You'll change, you'll become....
david		 A monster.  I know, I know.
jack		You must take your own life now, David, before it's too late.
david		Jack, are you really dead?
jack		What do you think?
david		I think I've lost my mind.  I think you're not real.  I think I'm asleep and you're a part of another bad dream.
jack		You must believe me.
david		What, Jack?  That tomorrow night beneath the full moon I'll sprout hair and fangs and eat people?  Bullshit!
jack		The canines will be real. You'll taste real blood!  God damit, David, please believe me!  You'll kill and make others like me!  I'm not having a nice time, David! Don't allow this to happen again!  You must take your own life!
david		 I will not accept this!  Now go away!
alex		David?
jack		 This is not pretend, David.
david		 I will not be threatened by a walking meat loaf!
alex		David, what's wrong?  I heard voices.
david		 It was just me, Alex.  It was just me.
woman		Hello, there.  What can I get you?
woman		Sorry, love.
dart player		I'm afraid I don't know what you mean, sir.
chess player		 And where are you from, sir?
chess player		What?
chess player		Oh, yes, yes.
woman		 Oh, that's been there for two hundred years.  We were going to paint it out, but it's traditional, so we left it.
dart player		Incident?
chess player		Are you a police officer?
dart player		You thought what?
chess player		 A story about werewolves - now really, sir.
alex		Let me go now, you'll make me late.
david		Do me an enormous favor?
alex		Anything.
david		Tell me that it's silly of me to be apprehensive.
alex		It's silly of you to be apprehensive.
david		Werewolves simply do not exist.
alex		 David, do you want me to stay here tonight?
david		Yeah, I do, but go to work.
alex		Listen, if you get too anxious, call me at the hospital, okay?
david		Okay.
alex		I've left those pills for you.
david		A doper werewolf.
david		See you later.
david		 What did I do?
david		Thanks a lot, dog.
david		Wonderful.
david		An American werewolf was found frozen to death today in the heart of London, England.
david		What did I do, cat?
david		 Snarl.  Growl.  Grrrr.
david		I'm not hungry.
david		 `Moon River, wider than a mile I'm crossing you in style, Someday....'
david		Fee fi fo fum, I smell the blood of an Englishman.
alex		How are we feeling tonight?
benjamin		No.
alex		No what?
benjamin		No!
alex		 Benjamin, have you ever been severely beaten about the face and neck?
benjamin		No.
alex		I thought not.
alex		You sleep now and have sweet dreams.
david		Jesus Christ!
david		 What?  Christ!  What?
david		I'm burning up!  Jesus!
david		 Jack!?  Where are you now, you fucker!?!
david		Help me!  Somebody help me, please!  Jack!!
david		 I'm sorry I called you a meat loaf, Jack.
woman		Which one, Harry?
man		Number thirty-nine, but let's go `round the back.
woman		Why?
man		Come on, we'll give Sean a scare.
woman		You're crazy, Harry.
harry		Come on.
woman		Did you hear something?
harry		Just now?
woman		Yes.
harry		No.  Here we are, Sean's is the one....
wife		Sean, those hooligans are in the park again.
sean		Aren't you ready yet?  They'll be here any minute.
wife		Something's going on out there.
miss gallagher		Uh, I don't know if....
alex		It's all right, Susan.  Yes, Doctor, I have.
sean		 Is anyone there?
alex		Yes, sir.
alex		At my flat.  I'm off at midnight and....
alex		He's not?
alex		Well, yes, but he seems to be more upset by the death of his friend.
alex		Yes.
alex		David says Jack comes to warn him.
alex		Dr. Hirsch, what's wrong?  Is this more serious than I know?
alex		Yes.
alex		And what else?
alex		No.  He knows no one in London, besides me.  I shouldn't have left him alone.
alex		Surely you're not suggesting....
alex		 Dr. Hirsch?
alex		What shall we do?
passenger		Hello?
passenger		Is there someone there?
passenger		I can assure you that this is not in the least bit amusing!
passenger		I shall report this!
passenger		Good Lord.
cut to:		WOLF'S P.O.V.
david		Wake me up, Alex.
david		Ouch!
alex		 Hello?  No, Dr. Hirsch, he hasn't come back yet.  Yes, I will, doctor, but I just feel so helpless sitting here doing nothing.  Thank you, yes, goodbye.
david		Hello.
david		Excuse me, won't you?
little boy		 I don't know who you are.
little boy		Why would a thief want to give me two pounds?
david		Thank you.
mother		Yes, love?
little boy		A naked, American man stole my balloons.
mother		What?
little boy		A naked, American man -- the famous balloon thief.
david		 A lot of weather we've been having lately.
alex		David!  Where on earth have you been!?!
david		I'm freezing.
david		Alex, I've lost my mind.  I woke up at the zoo!  But you know what?  I feel terrific!
alex		The zoo?
david		Waking up at the zoo, that's not so insane.  Having no clothes on?  That's insane. What did I do last night, Alex?
alex		Don't you remember?
david		I said goodbye to you.  I was locked out of the flat.  I climbed the wall and came in through the bathroom window. I started to read and then I was naked at the zoo!  I guess I am out of my fucking mind.
alex		I worried about you.  We didn't know where you were.
alex		Where did you get that coat?
alex		I'll get it.
alex		Hello?
alex		He doesn't remember.  He woke up at the zoo.
alex		Yes, he is.  He's very excited and confused, but he's not crazy, if that's what you mean.
alex		No, why?
alex		No, not really.
alex		Yes, I should think so.
alex		Yes, Doctor.
alex		He's fine.  We'll come right over.
alex		No, a cab will be faster.
alex		The next corner we can get a cab.
david		 I should be committed.
alex		Dr. Hirsch will know what to do.
david		 I don't know why I feel so good.  I haven't felt this good in a long time.
david		My body feels alive, alert.  I feel like an athlete.
alex		Get in.
alex		Saint Martin's Hospital.
driver		Right.
driver		It's like the days of the Mad Barber of Fleet Street, isn't it?
alex		I beg your pardon?
driver		The murders.
david		 What murders?
driver		Last night.  Haven't you heard?  Six people in different parts of the city mutilated.  A real maniac this one.
david		Pull over.
alex		But....
david		 Pull over.
david		Pay the man.
alex		David, wait!
alex		David, what are you doing?
david		Six people mutilated?  It had to be me, Alex.
alex		David, stop!
david		I am going to the cops. There's a full moon tonight. Jack was right.  I....
alex		 Jack is dead!
david		Jack is dead.  Look, six people have been killed.  I'm going to the police.
alex		David, please be rational. Let's go to Dr. Hirsch.
david		Rational!?!  I'm a fucking werewolf, for Christ's sake!
david		Officer, I killed those people last night.
bobbie		 You did, did you?
alex		He's playing a stupid joke, sir.
david		 What?
alex		We had an argument.  He's being silly.
david		 I swear, I don't know this girl.
bobbie		All right, you two, move along.
david		Hey, you asshole!  I want you to arrest me!
bobbie		There's no call for that kind of language.
david		 Queen Elizabeth is a man! Prince Charles is a faggot! Winston Churchill was full of shit!
bobbie		 Now see here young man.
david		Shakespeare was French!  The Queen Mother sucks cocks in hell!  Shit!  Fuck!  Piss!
bobbie		That's quite enough!
alex		 David, please!
david		Who is this girl?
bobbie		You're going to have to stop this disturbance or I shall arrest you.
david		 That's what I want you to do, you moron!
alex		 Sir, he's very upset.  His friend was killed and....
david		Will you shut up!?!!
bobbie		 That's enough!  Now go about your business.
alex		Yes, David, let's go.
david		 You're not going to arrest me?
david		Don't you think he should arrest me? ONLOOKER Well, I'm not sure.  How does he know this isn't a prank?
david		 A prank?
alex		 David....
bobbie		I've no time for this foolishness.  Nothing to look at.  Move along.
david		Hopeless.  It's hopeless.
alex		 David, let's go now.
david		Leave me alone, dammit!  You people are crazy!  I've got to get away from here!  I've got to do something!
alex		 David, don't lose control.
david		 Control!?!  What control!?! Get away from me!
david		Leave me alone!
alex		David, wait!
alex		He tried to have himself arrested.  He....
alex		He wants help.  He....
alex		 What shall we do?
david		Yes, operator.  I'd like to call the United States and reverse the charges.  David Kessler for anyone.  Yes, I'll wait.  Hello?  Yes, area code 315/472-3402.  Thank you.  Hello?  Rachel?  Just say yes, you'll accept the charges. Just say yes, Rachel.  Is Mom or Dad home?  Where are they? Where's Max?  You're all alone?  Mom and Dad wouldn't leave me alone when I was ten. No, not ten and a half either. I'm still in London.  I'm all better.  Look, would you tell Mom and Dad that I love them? I don't care, Rachel, just do it for me.  Okay?  Good.  And, Rachel, don't fight with Max. Well, try.  Look, kid, please don't forget to tell Mom and Dad I love them.  I love Max and you, too.  Well, I do. No, I'm not being weird, you little creep.  You promise? Okay.  Be a good girl.  I love you.  Bye.
ticket lady		Two and a half quid, please.
david		Will you take a traveler's check?
ticket lady		No, sorry.
david		Keep the change.
ticket lady		Well, thank you, sir!
david		Hi, Jack.
jack		Hi, David.
david		What can I say, Jack?
jack		You don't have to say anything.
david		Aren't you going to say, `I told you so'?
jack		If I was still alive, I probably would.
david		You look awful.
jack		Thank you.
david		 I didn't mean it.  I don't know what I'm saying.  I'm not even sure it was me who killed those people.  I don't remember doing it.
jack		What about the zoo?
david		Well, even if I'm not the wolfman, I am crazy enough to do something like that.  I mean, here I sit in Leicester Square talking to a corpse. I'm glad to see you, Jack.
jack		I want you to meet some people.
jack		David Kessler, this is Gerald Bringsly.
david		Hello.
jack		Gerald is the man you murdered in the subway.  We thought it best you didn't see him as he's a fresh kill and still pretty messy.
bringsly		 Yes, I do look most unpleasant.
david		 Why are you doing this to me, Jack?
bringsly		This isn't Mr. Goodman's idea. He is your good friend, whereas I am a victim of your carnivorous lunar activities.
david		 Mr. Bringsly, I'm sorry.  I have absolutely no idea what to say to you.
bringsly		You've left my wife a widow and my children fatherless. And I understand that I am to walk the earth one of the living dead until the wolf's bloodline is severed and the curse lifted.
bringsly		You must die, David Kessler.
jack		David, this is Harry Berman and his fiancee Judith Browns.
jack		And these gentlemen are Alf, Ted, and Joseph.
david		 What shall I do?
jack		Suicide.
harry		 You must take your own life!
david		That's easy for you to say - you're already dead.
bringsly		No, David.  Harry and I and everyone you murder are not dead.  The undead.
david		 Why are you doing this to me?
jack		Because this must be stopped.
david		How shall I do it?
judith		Sleeping pills?
david		I could hang myself.
jack		If you did it wrong, it would be painful.  You'd choke to death.
jack		Do you mind?  The man's a friend of mine.
bringsly		Gentlemen, please.
harry		A gun.
david		Don't I need a silver bullet or something?
jack		Be serious, would you?
david		Madness.  I've gone totally mad.
harry		A gun is good.
judith		You just put the gun to your forehead and pull the trigger.
bringsly		If you put it in your mouth, then you'd be sure not to miss.
david		Thank you, you're all so thoughtful.
david		 Go away!  Please!  Go away!
david		 Run!  Please...run.
ticket lady		It's horrible, horrible! There's a beast!  A mad dog! It's killing people in there!
alex		David?
cop		It's some kind of animal, sir. We.... Suddenly the doors splinter apart and there stands the Wolf, eyes blazing.  It leaps on Lt. Villiers, savaging him.  The crowd falls back in panic.
alex		David!  It's David!
alex		Let me through!
cop		Stand clear, miss!
alex		I must get through!
alex		David?  Is it you?  Is it true, David?
alex		David?
officer		Fire!
****Dialogues from script :amour.txt****

police officer		 What's the date of the last letter?
superintendent		 The 16th from what I can see... Wait...
janitor		...no as far as I know. During the whole time, they had a nurse, but it's been a while since I last saw her. My wife has been...
georges		They used a screwdriver or something like that...it doesn't look very professional...
anne		But who would do something like that?
georges		No idea. Why do people break in? Because they want to steal something.
anne		From us?
georges		 Hey, why not? If I thought about it, I could come up with at least three or four people we know who've been burgled.
anne		What time is it? Can't we call the superintendent?
georges		I'll do that tomorrow morning. Anyway, they didn't see anything.
anne		Or the police?
georges		Come on, give me your coat.
anne		Imagine if we were here, in our beds, and someone broke in.
georges		Why should I imagine that?
anne		But it's terrible! I think I'd die of fright.
georges		 So would I.
anne		I'm tired.
georges		I still fancy a drink.
georges		They must have been professionals.
anne		No.
georges		 What about next week? No but still, it would make sense to get it done soon. It might give people silly ideas. And anyway, it's too ugly to look at... Wednesday? What time? OK... Will you bring the paint with you too, to paint over it? But at least some primer...Yes, OK. Thank you.
anne		 I hope so. The last time, he kept us waiting for ages, if you remember.
georges		 Thanks. If I call a regular professional, we'll still be waiting two months time.
anne		 Really?
georges		The Frodons waited three days when their toilet was blocked. Not exactly pleasant.
anne		What are you doing?
georges		 Hey, what's going on? Are you completely crazy? Is this supposed to be a joke, or what's going on?
anne		What did you say?
georges		 Is this a joke? Is this meant to be a joke?
anne		What joke? I don't get it! Why are you talking to me like that? What's got into you?
georges		Anne! Please! Stop this game. It's not funny.
anne		 What game, for Christ's sake? What on earth's the matter?!!
georges		What's the matter? Why didn't you react?
anne		To what?
georges		To what? To me, to everything.
anne		When?
georges		Just now. A moment ago.
anne		Please tell me what's wrong. What am I supposed to have done?
georges		I don't know what to say. Do you really not know what just happened?
anne		But what DID happen?
georges		 You were sitting there, staring at me. You didn't answer me when I asked you what the matter was.
anne		When... When was it?
georges		Just now, a few minutes ago.
anne		So...??
georges		There's no "So". I went into the bedroom to get dressed. I wanted to get help.
anne		Help?
georges		Yes, and then you turned off the tap.
anne		Yes. Because you left it on.
georges		Neither do I.
anne		Why? What can he do?
georges		I don't know. Examine you.
anne		I'm fine. There's nothing wrong with me.
georges		Anne, please!! That's absurd. We can't pretend that nothing happened.
anne		But what DID happen?
georges		Can you explain how the tea towel got there?
anne		 No, I can't!
georges		Who turned on the tap?
anne		You did!
georges		Can you remember that?
anne		 No I can't! Do you want to torture me? Leave me in peace!
georges		Don't you think it would be better to fetch Dr. Bertier?
anne		No!
eva		You know how he is. Once he's got something into his head, he has to go through with it. In the end, everybody was delighted. And besides, it didn't hurt our financial situation. We're playing until the 28th. 
georges		What about the children?
eva		Liz is at boarding school and John is living his own life. He's twenty- six years old.
georges		What does he do?
eva		He's a student. We rarely see him. He's got his own ideas. Life Geoff. They don't really get along. Geoff wants to advise him on everything, and John doesn't like that at all.
georges		Is he good?
eva		I think so. He's less impulsive. Very industrious.
georges		That sounds rather derogatory.
eva		No!! He's not like Geoff. Quiet, but stubborn. I think he'll do all right. At the last Conservatory concert, he played the solo part in the Haydn Concerto. It was very good. Geoff was there and congratulated him at the end.
georges		And you?
eva		What do you mean?
georges		Did you both make up?
eva		 My God, you know him, don't you? Over the winter, he suddenly discovered his passion for a viola player who'd been in our ensemble for years. What can I tell you? It was a huge drama, and the poor little darling wound up trying to commit suicide. That scared him and he came back to me in full remorse. I've got used to it now. What's a bit embarrassing is that the ensemble, you can't keep any secrets from anyone.
georges		Do you love him?
eva		Yes, I think so.
georges		What can I say? The carotid artery was blocked. They did an ultrasound scan, two in fact, and they said they had to operate on her. She was scared. She was confused and scared. You know she has always been afraid of doctors. They said the risk was very low and that if they didn't operate, she'd be certain to have a serious stroke.
eva		And what do they say now?
georges		Just that it didn't go well. It's one of the 5% that go wrong.
eva		I'm so sorry.
georges		Yeah.
eva		What can I do for you?
georges		Nothing. It was nice of you to come despite all of your stress.
georges		Here. Thank you very much. It's for both of you. You can just put the things down here. There, beside the window, right. We'll be okay on our own. Thanks a lot.
superintendent		If you need anything, just call downstairs. If we can help at all...
georges		Right now everything's fine. I'll let your wife know as soon as we need anything.
superintendent		 It's nice to have you back, Mrs. Laurent.
anne		Yes. Thank you, Mr. Mery. Thank you.
superintendent		Yes... So... Goodbye then, ma'am. Welcome home again. Goodbye, Sir.
georges		Goodbye, Mr. Mery.
superintendent		Goodbye.
georges		 Where do you want...
anne		In the living room.
georges		Shall I make some tea?
anne		 First come sit with me.
georges		 Of course.
anne		It's best if you put my arm around your neck and your right arm around me, that way it'll be easy.
georges		 I'm glad you're back.
anne		 Me too.
georges		What?
anne		Please never take me back to the hospital.
georges		What?
anne		You promise?
georges		Anne...
anne		You promise?
georges		Anne, I...
anne		Don't talk right now. And don't give me any lectures. Please.
georges		What can I say, it's...
anne		 Nothing. Just don't say anything. OK?!
georges		There.
anne		Thank you. Thank you, Darling.
georges		Everything OK?
anne		 Everything's fine.
georges		I don't feel guilty.
anne		That's good.
georges		 OK.
anne		Did you buy the new book on Harnoncourt?
georges		I've already read it.
anne		And?
georges		Do you want it? I'll get it for you.
anne		Sure.
anne		Don't worry. It isn't that important.
anne		 Thanks.
georges		OK.
superintendant's wife		Unfortunately the strawberries were already moldy. I'll go and get you some fresh ones tomorrow from the market. My husband will bring you the bottled water this afternoon. I'm not supposed to carry anything heavy: my back, you know...
georges		Sure, no problem.
superintendent's wife		It came to 76 euros and 40 cents. There's the till receipt and here's
georges		Thank you very much. Keep the change. Thanks.
superintendent's wife		Thank you, sir.
georges		Yes. I will.
superintendent's wife		Is your wife well? ...
georges		Yes, she's OK. She's recovering.
superintendent's wife		Fine. Give her my regards. My husband and I are very glad she's back.
georges		Yes, we are too. Bye, Mrs. Mry, thanks so much.
superintendent's wife		Goodbye, sir.
georges		... some banal romance or other about a nobleman and a lower middle- class girl who couldn't have each other and who then, out of sheer magnanimity, decide to renounce their love - in fact I don't quite remember it any more. In any case, afterwards I was thoroughly distraught, and it took me a bit of time to calm down. In the courtyard of the house where grandma lived, there was a young guy at the window who asked me where I'd been. He was a couple of years older than me, a braggart who of course really impressed me. "To the movies", I said, because I was proud that my grandma had given me the money to go all alone to the cinema. 
anne		So? How did he react?
georges		No idea. He probably found it amusing. I don't remember. I don't remember the film either. But I remember the feeling. That I was ashamed of crying, but that telling him the story made all my feelings and tears come back, almost more powerfully than when I was actually watching the film, and that I just couldn't stop.
anne		That's cute. Why didn't you ever tell me before?
georges		There are still a few stories you don't know.
anne		Aha...? Don't tell me you're going to ruin your image in your old age?
georges		 You bet I won't. But what is my image?
anne		 Sometimes you're a rotter. But you're nice.
georges		 Can I take you for a drink?
anne		Listen to this! My horoscope. Motto: You have lots of verve, but need to be more serious! Love: High-class conversation is what you need. Work: You're motivated again. But proceed with care. Health: Loosen up by doing exercises. It'll give you renewed pizzazz.
georges		 You've only yourself to blame if you read stuff like that.
anne		You have to go.
georges		I fear I must. I don't want to go at all.
anne		Who does like going to funerals?
georges		Oh, I know a few people who do. Annette can never wait to get all dolled up again. And Franois has...
anne		You're mean. What would you say if no one came to your funeral?
georges		 Nothing, presumably.
anne		Have you talked to Jeanne since I was in the hospital? I mean, does she know I can't come?
georges		Of course.
anne		What did she say?
georges		She was shocked.
anne		How?
georges		 My God, what are people like when they're shocked? She couldn't believe it, she was speechless. I don't remember any more. In any case, not exactly. I've spoken to a lot of people since.
anne		Sorry.
georges		No, I'm sorry. I didn't mean to be unkind, but I just don't see the point of talking about it all the time.
anne		Do I talk about it all the time?
georges		No. Sorry.
anne		Don't worry.
georges		What ... ?!
anne		 Why are you back already? What time is it?
georges		Anne...
anne		Can you wheel me into the living room?
georges		Yes.
anne		Yes. Why are you home earlier?
georges		I didn't come home earlier. I took a taxi. In August, there isn't a lot of traffic.
anne		That's true. How was the funeral?
georges		Anne...!
anne		How was it, go on, tell me!
georges		It was rather bizarre. The priest was an idiot. Then one of Pierre's co-workers made a speech that was embarrassingly emotional. His old secretary came with a radio- cassette player and after the speech she put on "Yesterday" by the Beatles. You can't imagine. Everybody turned round to look at her. Apparently, it wasn't planned. His grandchildren were there. Of course they giggled as soon as the music began. Then the urn was put on a huge stretcher that was obviously designed for a coffin, and out we went into the rain. They placed the urn on a small electric cart that crawled along for what seemed like an eternity to the tiny hole they had dug. A lot of people had to stifle their laughter. It must have been terrible for Jeanne. I have...
anne		 There's just no point in going on living. I know it can only get worse. Why should I inflict it on us? On you and me.
georges		You're not inflicting anything on me.
anne		You don't have to lie, Georges.
georges		Imagine you were me. Didn't you ever think something like this could happen to one of us?
anne		Of course I did. But imagination and reality have little in common.
georges		But things are getting better every day. We'll...
anne		 Georges, I don't want to carry on. You're making such efforts to make everything easier for me. But I don't want to go on. For my own sake. Not yours.
georges		I don't believe you. I know you. You think you're a burden on me. But what if things were the other way around? What would you do then?
anne		I don't know. I can't be bothered to think about being you. I'm tired. You tire me. Everything tires me. I can't talk. I want to go to bed.
georges		 Oh hello! Nice to see you.
soloist		Forgive me for dropping in on you like this, Professor. I tried to reach you by phone a couple of times, but no luck.
georges		I'm sorry. I only pick up the phone when I've stored the caller's number and I can see who's calling. Why didn't you leave a message? Anyway, do come in...
soloist		I just couldn't manage to come by after the concert. I was so sorry, because I was so pleased you came along.
georges		Come with me.
soloist		... And now, an unexpected opportunity has arisen because Franois Mitry called me - you know him, he's my agent - to say he'd arranged for me to meet the boss of the Thtre des Champs-Elyses tonight to talk about their new concert series. 
georges		Yes, she is. I'll go and get her in a minute. Have a seat.
soloist		I hope I'm not disturbing you too much.
georges		No, not at all. I'm happy that you came. We were so thrilled by your concert. We hoped we'd see you again soon. Please do have a seat. Can I can get you something? A cup of tea?
soloist		No, no, thank you very much.
georges		Hold on, I'll just freshen up the flowers; in this heat they wilt so fast...
soloist		I've only just bought them. They should keep quite...
anne		Martin! What a delight. How lovely to see you!
soloist		Mrs. Laurent! Lovely to see you too.
anne		Don't get up. Come on, sit yourself down and don't look so shocked.
soloist		Oh God! I wanted to bring you the CD, but I left in such a hurry that I forgot it. I'm so sorry. I'll get one today and drop it by.
anne		 No, no, don't worry. We want to make a contribution to your success. Even if it's only twenty euros.
soloist		You've already contributed so much. I owe you so much, Madame.
anne		You owe it to your hard work and your talent.
soloist		 Do you remember, when you first gave me the Bagatelles to play? I was twelve at the time, and in my youthful arrogance I said: "But why the Bagatelles?" And you really gave me a piece of your mind.
anne		My right side is paralyzed, that's all. It can happen when you get older.
soloist		And how...?
anne		Let's talk about something else, shall we?
soloist		 Sure ...
anne		Don't be offended. But I want to enjoy the lovely interlude you've given us with your visit.
soloist		 Of course.
georges		You haven't told us yet what's been going on since the Paris concert.
soloist		Well, actually I've spent most of the time in London studying. Then I went to Copenhagen for two performances, that was Schubert too. My whole life revolves around Schubert at the moment. The concerts with the Impromptus and the Moments Musicaux, and for my bread-and-butter work I'm developing the sonatas. Not the late ones, I think I still need a couple more years for those.
anne		Could you do me a favor?
soloist		 Really?
anne		Would you play Fr Elise?
soloist		 Um, I don't know if I remember it very well. Beethoven, it's been a long time since I've... But if you want...
anne		Give it a try.
soloist		 OK.
anne		What's the matter?
georges		 Good God, what are you doing?
anne		 I'm sorry.
georges		 Yes, so am I.
anne		 Sorry.
georges		The lamp is broken too.
anne		Georges? What's going on? Who is it?
anne's voice		Calm down will you! There's nothing there. It's nothing.
anne		What was it?
georges		 I didn't understand... I thought I'd gone mad... It was something impossible...
anne		What was?
georges		Eva. They're coming on the 12th.
anne		Why?
georges		No idea. Apparently she's coming with Geoff.
anne		When is it?
georges		I don't know exactly. What day is it today? I'll go and look.
anne		I don't want that.
georges		What?
anne		Geoff doesn't need to come.
georges		Dear Madame Laurent, Dear Monsieur Laurent, it was beautiful and yet sad to see you. My heartfelt wishes that things will get better. With deep gratitude, your former pupil, Martin.
anne		Stop the CD.
georges		The family albums? I don't know, there, in the other room. Why?
anne		Can you get them for me?
georges		What, now?
anne		I'd like to look at them.
georges		 You're welcome.
anne		That's nice.
georges		 What?
anne		Life...so long... What a long life...
georges		 I wasn't watching you.
anne		Of course you were. I'm not that dumb yet.
georges		You're soaked through.
anne		What do you mean?
georges		Hold on.
anne		 I can't... take it any more.
georges		My love. My darling.
eva		... thinking about whether it wouldn't be better to invest the money in an apartment block. If inflation gets going again, property is the only sure thing. Right now, savings accounts pay 1.75% at best. Four years ago, Geoff bought some stocks with a small sum of money and the whole thing collapsed. So now we're obviously worried. Unfortunately, in the meantime, other people have had the same idea, and property prices are going through the roof. Since we came back from Scandinavia, I spend all my spare time looking through newspaper ads.
anne		 Yes yes I have... I have... the grandmother... woman with house... not... the house then ... money
eva		I don't understand you, I'm afraid.
anne		... yes... now... it's all... house sel... sel... sel... was... in two strokes of... so quickly... god it's hard... to say... sell... money gone... left... there too...
georges		... three times a week... I'm not experienced enough. We'll see if that's enough.
geoff		How much is she asking?
georges		It's paid by the hour. We'll see.
geoff		And her?
georges		Anne?
geoff		And what about the doctor? What does he say?
georges		He's...
eva		 She only talks gibberish. I don't know what...
geoff		Hey, dear...
eva		Nothing is OK.
georges		We can't do anything for the moment. Calm down, darling. She's getting medical treatment, they give her the necessary medication, and there are no other options right now.
eva		What does that mean, "no other options"? Why isn't she in a hospital?
georges		She had a second stroke. Bertier examined her and felt we could spare her all the hospital inpatient procedures. 
geoff		Don't you think you're taking on too much?
georges		Have you got a better idea?
eva		I can't believe that these days there's no way of handling this efficiently.
georges		 No one's stopping you from finding out.
eva		I didn't say that. I'm simply questioning whether what I see going on here is the answer to everything!
geoff		 Don't you want to get a second opinion?
georges		Now you two had better stop, OK? Another doctor did come. He said Bertier was right. From Monday, a nurse will come three times a week. Now can we talk about something else?
eva		Like what?
georges		There, my love, I hope you like it.
anne		OK...
georges		I added a little orange juice. I find it tastes quite good.
anne		...Mom to the concert...
georges		Yes?
anne		...Mom to the concert... no dress...
georges		Mom has no dress for the concert?
anne		...Mom to concert... no ... uuu... no...
georges		Yes?
anne		 Help! Help! Help! Help! Help! Help!...
nurse		... we could take turns. She'd come from 8 till 12 and I'd do 2 until 6, or 3 to 7. That would certainly relieve the pressure on you.
georges		I'll think about it.
nurse		She just has to know in time so she can arrange it in her schedule.
georges		Yes, of course, I'll let you know in the next few days.
nurse		Very well. I have to go now...
georges		My pleasure. I'll see you out.
nurse		You mustn't take it too seriously. Usually they always say something. She might just as well say "Mom, Mom, Mom". It's just mechanical.
georges		 I know.
nurse		Goodbye, sir.
georges		Goodbye.
anne		 ...Help...Help...
georges		Would you mind putting them in the kitchen.
superintendent		Can I do anything else for you, sir?
georges		No, thanks, Mr. Mry. You've been a big help.
superintendent		Oh, it's nothing, sir.
georges		I'll let you know if I need you again.
superintendent		With pleasure, sir.
georges		What is it?
superintendent		My wife and I, we're very impressed by the way you're managing everything. I take my hat off to you.
georges		 That's very kind of you. Thanks. See you soon.
superintendent		Give my regards to your wife.
georges		I certainly will. Thanks.
anne		... Ssssur...
georges		...Sur le pont...
anne		po ... pont ... sss
georges		...Sur le pont ... Sur le pont ...
anne		... Ssssur le pont ...
georges		: ... Sur le pont d'Avignon...
anne		... ssur... le ..
georges		... pont... Sur le pont d'Avignon... : Sur le pont d'Avignon on y danse, on y danse, sur le pont d'Avignon tout le monde y danse en rond...
second nurse		 ... there we are...now we're all beautiful again...so everybody will admire us...there...you see... wait...
nurse		... as you wish, sir. I don't know what you were expecting. I gave up another job to come and work here. You should have thought it over before deciding whether you wanted a second nurse or not.
georges		But I've only just found out how incompetent you are.
nurse		 What's that supposed to mean?
georges		I don't want to discuss it with you. Anyway, you wouldn't understand.
nurse		No one has ever complained.
georges		Good for you.  How much do I owe you?
nurse		 Seven hundred and eighty euros.
georges		Do you have twenty euros?
nurse		No.
georges		Then take the eight hundred euros. You can go now.
nurse		You're a nasty old man. I feel sorry for you.
georges		I hope from the bottom of my heart that one day someone treats you the way you treat your patients, and that you too will have no way of defending yourself. Now get out.
nurse		Go fuck yourself, you old fart!
georges		... Please, open your mouth... go on... open it... Anne! Please!... come on... stop that!...
anne		 Help... help...
georges		 Please, forgive me.
anne		 Help... Help... Help... Help...
georges		Who's there?
eva's voice		It's me.
georges		Eva?
eva's voice		 Yes.
georges		Just a minute.
eva		Hello. What was going on?
georges		I was in the toilet. Sorry.
eva		What's going on with Mom?
georges		Nothing. What should be going on?
eva		Well... 
georges		Don't you want to sit down first?
eva		What's going on with Mom? Why don't you answer the phone? After our last conversation, I left four messages on your answering machine. Why don't you call back?
georges		Sorry. I didn't listen to it. Forgive me.
eva		Don't you realize we're worried?
georges		Your worries are no use to me.
eva		Dad...
georges		No. Let's stop this conversation right there. I'm taking care of your mother. It's a full-time job. And I'm not saying that to complain, just to explain why I didn't answer your phone calls and why I don't want to have any pointless discussions on the subject. Your mother is just as could have been expected: bad the whole time. 
eva		Dad, what's the matter?
georges		Nothing's the matter; your visit caught me by surprise. And I'm annoyed that you show up here to check that everything's OK. Who do you think you are?
eva		I...
georges		Stay here, will you!
georges		Please, sit down.
eva		I don't want to sit down. What's going on here?
georges		 Nothing's going on. I want to spare us all a pointless drama. I presume your mother is asleep. She mostly sleeps the whole day. And then she wakes up at night. If you really want to, we'll go and see her in a little while. Now, sit down. OK?
eva		 You can't stop me from seeing her.
georges		 No.
eva		It's me, Mom.
anne		Mom... Mom... Mom... Mom... Mom...
georges		The tea isn't very hot any more.
eva		Thanks.
georges		It was silly of me to lock the door. I'm sorry. You took me by surprise, that's all. I'm sorry.
eva		What's going to happen now?
georges		 What's going to happen now? The nurse comes twice a week, and every two weeks Dr. Bertier and the hairdresser come. That's what you want to know, right? Things will go on as they have done up until now. They'll go from bad to worse. Things will go on, and then one day it will all be over.
eva		You can't go on like this, Dad.
georges		Can't I? What do you suggest?
eva		Can't we have a serious talk, you and me?
georges		What do you call "a serious talk"? What do you want to suggest? Do you want to have Mom live with you? Do you want to pack her off to a care home? Do you? What do you want? Go on, talk to me "seriously"!
anne		: ding... dong...
georges		 Yes, it swung to and fro.
anne		: like that... serious...
georges		 Yes. I think I was pretty uptight.
anne		 yes... up... tight...
anne's voice		 Help... Help... Help... Help... Help...
anne		I'm almost done.
anne's voice		You can put your shoes on if you want.
anne		Thanks.
****Dialogues from script :an_education.txt****

****Dialogues from script :analyze_this.txt****

for educational		PURPOSES ONLY
wiseguy		You wanna be a ribeye?   Get away from the fuckin' car.
manetta		Anyway, Carlo Gambino came out of it capo de tutti capi, and that was the last time the whole commission tried to meet -- until now.
vitti		 I don't know. I don't like it. What do we need a meeting for? Let everybody worry about their own business.
manetta		The '57 meeting was about how we were going to divide up the whole country. This meeting is about how we're gonna survive. You got 'made' guys informing for the Feds; bosses going to jail; everybody's dealing drugs; people are getting whacked without permission. And on top of everything, now we got the Chinese Triads and these crazy Russians to deal with. Everything's changing. We need a leader. Someone with fresh ideas. Someone like you. It's gonna be a new century, Paul. We gotta change with the times.
vitti		What are we gonna get, a fuckin' web site?
manetta		You remember what else happened in 1957, Paul?
vitti		Yeah, I remember.
manetta		When your father died, I promised him I'd always look out for you. Come to the meeting. 
vitti		Wait a second. I'm just gonna grab a toothpick.
caroline		 I kept telling him that I needed room to grow and find myself as a person. Not just as a woman but as an independent entity.
caroline		I told him I needed to get in touch with my uniqueness, but he couldn't handle that. He said I was driving him away. Do you think I was driving him away, Dr. Sobol?
ben		Things end, Caroline. That's just a part of life. It's how we deal with things ending that's important.
caroline		I just can't believe it's over between me and Steve. Maybe there's still hope.
ben		Well, he did take out a restraining order against you. I have to be honest, that's usually not a good sign.
caroline		But what should I do?
ben		Well, Caroline, I think the first thing you have to do...  'Steve doesn't respect me. Steve doesn't love me anymore.' Who gives a shit! Get a fucking life! You are, without a doubt, the most boring human being I have ever met! Please, say something interesting before I lapse into a goddamn coma!
caroline		Dr. Sobol?
ben		Yes. Yes. I was just reflecting on your whole -- situation. It's very interesting what you were just saying. I want you to think about it, and I'm going to think about it, so we'll both think about it and we'll continue next week when I get back from my vacation.
ben		Or not.
michael		You're late.
ben		 I know. I couldn't get rid of my last patient. I think she was a tick in a past life.
michael		Yeah, what's Caroline's problem? Your boyfriend's gone, he hates your guts, get over it.
ben		Michael! What did I tell you? You can't listen to my sessions! It's private stuff.
michael		I can't help it. I hear you through the vent in my room.
ben		Funny how that happens when you lie on the floor and put your ear up against it.
michael		Okay, okay. How's that guy who dreams about shitting trout?
ben		 Fine. He moved up to striped bass. Put on your cummerbund. Boy, have you grown. Did your mother move next door to a nuclear power plant?
michael		 Why do we have to wear rented clothes to Grandpa's party? This blows.
ben		 Forget the tux. Regular clothes.
michael		 Are you ambivalent about Grandpa Isaac?
michael		Mom.
michael		Oh, yeah. She really cares. She says you're intimidated by women your own age, and that's why you go for these young babes.
ben		 Okay. Listen, for two seconds, pretend I'm not your father. I'm just some guy, okay?
michael		You gonna vent?
ben		Yeah.  Okay. Dad again. Let's go.
vitti		So what did you find out?
jelly		 The word is Primo Sindone must have ordered it, but, uh --
vitti		What?
vitti		What?
jelly		 A lot of people think you set him up.
vitti		Why the fuck would I want to kill Dominic? He was like a father to me.
jelly		So you could be the big boss. Everybody figures you're lookin' to wipe out the competition before the big meeting.
vitti		Oh, is that what they figure?
jelly		It's alright with me if you did --
vitti		I didn't kill him! I told you that! Don't you hear?
nicky		Please, Mr. Vitti, I told 'em I don't know anything but they don't believe me 'cause that one time I said Little Joe hit Dukey and it turned out he didn't but I didn't know because --
jimmy		 Shut the fuck up!
vitti		Nicky, you know me, right?
nicky		Yeah.   You're Mr. Vitti.
vitti		And you know what I'm gonna do to you if you lie to me, right?
nicky		Uh, you're gonna crack me on the head with that pipe?
jimmy		 It's a rhetorical question, you fuckin' idiot.
vitti		I'm only gonna ask you this one time. Who killed Dominic Manetta?
nicky		I don't know.
vitti		 Don't fuckin' lie to me!
nicky		 Honest to God, I don't know!
vitti		You little rat bastard...
vitti		Forget about it. He doesn't know anything.
vitti		Get him outta here.
ben		 Look at this. Everybody's nuts. Ooh, I hate walking into that house late.
michael		I think you're reacting like this because you're mad we have to go to this party.
ben		No. Don't. I'm not going to be analyzed by someone who up until a few years ago believed in Santa. Sorry, but we only have room for one Dr. Sobol in this family.
michael		But there's two Dr. Sobols. There's you and Grandpa.
ben		 Can we talk about something else?
michael		Are you going to read Grandpa's new book? Mom says you won't because you're...
ben		Does your mother talk about anything else or is it just me twenty-four hours a day?
ben		That's your mother's fault!   Your mother did that! Damn!
jimmy		 What's the matter with you?   Are you some kind of moron?
ben		I'm sorry.   It's totally my fault.
jimmy		Did you see anything?
ben		I was talking to my son.   I took my eyes off the road --
jimmy		Forget that bullshit.   Did you see anything?
jelly		That's all right, sir. It's our fault for being in front of you like that.
ben		 Well, I should have been watching. Let me give you my insurance information --
jelly		It's okay.   Forget about it.
ben		Really? It looks like your whole rear end might be screwed up.
jelly		No, it was like that before.
ben		Maybe we should call the police?
jelly		 Why?    Fuck the police.
ben		Right!   Fuck 'em.
ben		At least take my card. You might look at the damage in the morning and change your mind.
jelly		You're a doctor?
ben		Ph.D.    Psychologist.
jelly		A shrink. You talk to a lotta nuts, huh?
jelly		Pings and knocks. Cheap gas. Hey, how do those minivans handle?
jelly		Take it easy, Doc.
isaac		 All right, neurotics only! Well, you must have been a beautiful ba-a-by, 'cause baby look at you now, thank God for Prozac, baby look at you now!
ben		What do you mean you're not coming? It's my wedding.
dorothy		We understand it's a special day for you, Benny, but your father and I can't just pick up and leave town every time you decide to get married.
ben		Every time? This is a once-in-a- -- twice-in-a-lifetime thing.
ben		Dad, you're not coming to my wedding?
isaac		We want to be there, but I have three book signings next weekend. I can't piss off these big book stores. If I cancel, they'll stick me down on the bottom shelf. That's how they are.
ben		Yeah, that's the word on the street. The self-help book business is full of vindictive pricks.
dorothy		 Ben!   The language.
ben		I'm sorry, but I've been alone for eight years, now I've finally met someone I want to spend the rest of my life with and I would really like you to meet her before we get married. You're going to be her family. I think it's better she knows that up front.
isaac		You're really hostile tonight.
ben		I'm joking.
dorothy		 I think I'll go talk to the mayor.
ben		The mayor's here?
dorothy		I can only hope.
isaac		What's wrong?
ben		Nothing.   Everything's fine.
isaac		How's your practice?
ben		It's great. Just great. I've got some very interesting patients -- extremely interesting. Fascinating actually.
michael		Dad has a patient who dreams he shits trout.
ben		Thanks, Mike.
isaac		Excuse us, Michael.
isaac		Why are you wasting your time out there in the boondocks? New York City is the Mecca of Madness.
ben		I'm just not sure I could spend my life dealing with people whose biggest crisis is how to fire the maid.
isaac		It beats a guy with an ass full of flounder.
ben		Trout! And don't minimize my practice.
isaac		Why are you getting so defensive? This is about your own feelings of inadequacy.
ben		You always turn it back on me. Why do you do that?
isaac		Why do you think I do that?
ben		Why do you think I think you do that? Go ahead, now you ask me why I think you think I think you do that.
isaac		Enough. I want you to think about what I said. And when you're ready to talk to me like a normal person, I'll be at the piano with Regis Philbin.  Rege!
regis philbin		I'm not singing, Isaac!
isaac		Now, ladies and gentlemen, at the piano, Regis Philbin!
ben		 Thomas Wolfe was right. You can't go home again -- because your parents still live there.
masiello		The Manetta family is asking a lot of questions. They think we hit Dominic.
mangano		Forget Dominic! They were after Paul.  It's a miracle you survived. I thank God.
vitti		Yeah, thank God. All I know is if I didn't have some veal stuck in my teeth, I'd be laying there with Dominic.
johnny bigs		This is all about the big meeting. Primo Sindone wants to run the whole show.
mangano		Yeah, but Primo's a boss. He knows the rules. He couldn't go after Dominic and Paul unless the other families gave their permission.
vitti		 Talk to Zello and Baldassare. Find out what you can. We got two weeks. If the other New York bosses are against us, I want to know it before I walk into that meeting.
mangano		You all right, Paul? You don't look good.
vitti		I'm a little choked up here.   I gotta get some air.
jelly		You feel all right?
vitti		I feel like shit. This whole thing is like a huge fuckin' headache.
jelly		 You havin' one of those mindgrains?
vitti		Get the car.
doctor		Good news, Mr. Evans.   Your heart is just fine.
vitti		How could it be fine? I've had like eight heart attacks in the last three weeks.
doctor		Well, based on everything, I'd say you probably had an anxiety attack.
vitti		 What?
doctor		An anxiety attack. A panic attack. I can give you some Xanax if it happens again soon --
vitti		 Look at me. Do I look like a guy who panics?
doctor		 There's nothing -- I mean -- it's a common thing --
vitti		Where did you go to medical school? I had a heart attack, you quack bastard.
doctor		 Well, not according to these --
vitti		 Listen to me, jerk-off. I had a mild heart attack and now it's over. You understand?
vitti		If anyone asks you, you never saw me, and I was never here. Is that clear?
doctor		 Yes.
vitti		Good.  Take the chart.
vitti		Jelly, I need you to do something for me as my friend.
jelly		Anything.
vitti		You have to find me a doctor.
jelly		We just came from the doctor.
vitti		Not that kind of doctor.   I need a head doctor.
jelly		You're gonna change your face like Sonny Black? Don't get his nose though, he looks like a pig.
vitti		Not a plastic surgeon, ya spoostud. Do I have to spell everything out?
jelly		It saves time.
vitti		I need you to find me a psychiatrist.
jelly		Wow. This is like the Psychic Network or something. I just ran into a psychiatrist. Actually he ran into me.
vitti		Is he any good?
jelly		Yeah, he seemed like a smart guy. He had a business card and everything --
vitti		He had a card? That's a real fuckin' achievement.
jelly		What do you need a shrink for anyway?
vitti		It's not for me. It's for a friend. This friend is having some problems, so I'm going to ask the shrink some questions and get some answers for my friend.
jelly		Got it.
vitti		And nobody can know. If anyone hears I'm talking to a shrink, it could be interpreted the wrong way. You know what I mean?
jelly		Of course. Absolutely.  Can I ask you one thing?
vitti		What?
jelly		This friend.    Is it me?
ben		Carl, I'm detecting a pattern here. You seem to settle too easily for things.
carl		You're right.    I do.
ben		No, well, there you go. You just did it again. I suggested something and you immediately agreed.
carl		You're right.    I did.
ben		Why do you think you do that?
carl		I don't know.
ben		Well, sometimes people do it because they fear rejection or disapproval, but you can't let that worry you, Carl. And you can't agree with things just for the sake of agreeing. Stand your ground. Don't let people roll over you.
jelly		Dr. Sobol?
ben		Excuse me!    I'm in a session here.
jelly		Yeah, I know, I'm sorry.
ben		You're... You're one of the guys I rear-ended the other night.
jelly		Bingo.  Get outta here.
jelly		Upsa-daisy.   You got a coat, nutbar?
ben		What are you doing?
jelly		He's leaving.
ben		The hell he is. He's not going anywhere until we're done with his session.
jelly		 I'll give you a hundred bucks to get out of here.
ben		Don't take it, Carl.
jelly		 A hundred and fifty.
ben		He's not leaving.
carl		 Three hundred.
jelly		 You're not that fuckin' crazy.
ben		Listen, if you're upset about your car, I can understand that. But you don't just barge in here --
vitti		You know who I am?
ben		Yes.
vitti		No you don't.
ben		Okay.
vitti		You've seen my picture in the papers?
ben		Yes.    And no.    Sometimes.   Never.
vitti		Jelly, wait outside.
vitti		Sit down.
ben		Sure.
vitti		Tony Bennett, huh?
ben		Yeah.   He's my favorite.
ben		 Mr. Vitti, I tried to give the guy my insurance information, but he wouldn't take it. Seriously, I tried several times because it was all my please don't kill me.
vitti		I was just gonna ask if you liked baseball.
ben		Yes.   Big Yankee fan.
ben		Mr. Vitti. Not that it's your fault, but your friend, he interrupted a patient's session and that's -- not good. I think this is a matter for our insurance companies, don't you think?
vitti		I don't care about the car.
ben		Then what -- ?
vitti		A friend of mine is having a problem and he might have to see a shrink, so I'm going to ask you a couple questions. Do we sit?
ben		Whatever makes you comfortable.
vitti		Okay, the first thing I gotta know about is privacy. You must hear a lot of weird shit in here. How do I know you won't go testifying -- not testifying -- but, you know, talking about it to somebody else.
ben		I won't discuss a patient with anyone for any reason, unless I know the patient may be a danger to himself. Like if I'm concerned a patient might kill himself...
vitti		Not fuckin' likely --
ben		-- or kill someone else.
vitti		So who starts?
ben		Why don't you tell me why you think you need therapy?
vitti		I don't need therapy. I'm helping out my friend. You didn't hear me say that?
ben		Right.   I'm sorry.
vitti		You guys are supposed to be so great when it comes to listening. You can't remember what I said two seconds ago.
ben		I'm very sorry.
vitti		I have to tell you, Doc, I'm not thrilled with the level of service up to this point.
ben		Why don't you tell me about your friend?
vitti		He's a powerful guy. Never had a problem dealing with things, you know? Now all of a sudden, he's falling apart. He cries for no reason. He's having trouble sleeping. And then he started having these attacks. You know, can't breathe, dizzy, chest pains -- like you think you're gonna die.
ben		Panic attacks.
vitti		What's with all you doctors and the fuckin' panic? Did I say panic?
ben		Not panic. Dizzy -- breathing -- chest pain attacks.
vitti		Right. So the question is, what can he do to make it stop?
ben		I'm going to go out on a limb here. I think your friend is you.
vitti		You -- you -- you -- you have a gift, my friend. Go on.
ben		Medication could help, but if you really want to get to the bottom of this, you're going to want to get some kind of therapy.
vitti		With you?
ben		 With me? Oh, I don't know. I'd have to look at my schedule. I'm very heavily booked right now and I'm going on a short vacation tomorrow.
vitti		Where you going?
ben		I don't really share that information with...
vitti		Where?
ben		Miami Beach.
vitti		You know, this could be good. Just getting that off my chest, I feel better already. It's like a load is off my shoulders. Thank you.
ben		Well, I really didn't do anything --
vitti		You did something. The load? Off. Where is it? Don't know. You're good, Doctor. I'll be in touch. But listen to me.  If I talk to you and it turns me into a fag, I'll kill you. You understand?
ben		Could we define 'fag,' because some feelings may come up --
vitti		I go fag, you die. Got it?
ben		Yes.
ben		I hope you didn't leave any food in your room. I don't want to come home and find a science fair.
michael		I didn't.   Hey, Dad? One thing though.
ben		Yeah?
michael		I go fag, you die.
ben		Michael! That's it!      I am sealing that vent.
michael		You are so cool, Dad. Was that really Paul Vitti?
ben		 I didn't ask to see his Mafia decoder ring, but yeah, it was him. And you cannot tell anyone he was here. You understand?
michael		Should I take it off the internet?
ben		What?
michael		I'm kidding!
laura		So judging from the mob scene around the pool here today, I think you'd have to say that there's nothing 'off' about the 'off-season' in Miami Beach this summer. Now, on a personal note, this is my last report for W.V.B.F. I'm getting married to a wonderful man and moving to New York, so if you're up that way, watch for me on the W.P.I.X. news team. Thanks for everything, Miami.  For the last time, this is Laura MacNamara, W.V.B.F. news.
laura		Catch!
producer		We're clear.
laura		 Ben!
laura		This is him, everyone!    This is the guy!
ben		 Hi, everybody.
laura		 Oh, I missed you.
ben		I missed you too. Michael, say hello.
michael		Hi, Laura.
laura		 This is Michael? I don't think so. If I remember correctly, Michael was a little boy, and this, this is a great big kid. Hey, you. Tell us what you did with Michael Sobol.
laura		Okay. Come on. Give me a break. I'm trying.
michael		No, it was nice, but I'm fourteen so it wasn't -- you know -- age appropriate.
laura		 How are you, Michael?
michael		Great.
ben		Mike, you want to go look at the camera?
michael		Why would I want to look at the camera?
ben		'Cause I bet there's all kinds of cool video stuff over there. Why don't you check it out?
michael		 Is it okay?
laura		Go ahead. If you break something, don't worry. I'm out of here.
laura		You think he likes me?
ben		Michael?   He's crazy about you.   I am too.
laura		You are? And you still really want to get married?
ben		Of course.
laura		But what if you get tired of me? I know so many couples that were really happy, then they got married and just completely lost interest in each other.
ben		That's not going to be us.
laura		I just don't want to lose the passion.
ben		Yes, I'm brimming with passion. I'm up to here with passion.
laura		I want us to be like animals. You know just screaming and sweating and tearing at each other all the time --
ben		The sweating shouldn't be a problem. The tearing sounds painful.
sound guy		 Uhh, Laura? You want me to take your mic, or at least turn it off?
laura		Oh my God.
sheila		Oh, yes. Oh, yes.  Is everything okay, Paul?
vitti		What are you talking for?   I'm trying to do this here.
sheila		You seem -- distracted.
vitti		I got things on my mind.    Stop talking.
sheila		Okay, I'm sorry. Just relax, baby.
sheila		 Were you thinking about your wife?
vitti		No, I wasn't thinking about my wife.  Now I'm thinking about my wife. Goddamn it, Sheila, why can't you keep your mouth shut!
sheila		 I'm sorry, Paul.
ben		Mom?
jelly		Mr. Vitti wants to see you.   I have your robe.
vitti		I got news for you. I'm still fucked up. Whatever you did the other day, it didn't take. You did nothing for me.
ben		 That got away from me near the end.
vitti		I couldn't get it up tonight.
ben		 You mean sexually?
vitti		No, I mean for the big game against Michigan State. Of course sexually!
ben		You flew fifteen hundred miles and dragged me out of bed in the middle of the night because you couldn't get an erection?
vitti		Doesn't that prove I'm motivated?
ben		You can take a pill for that, you know.
vitti		No, that's a cheat. You start with the pills, next thing you know you got implants with pumps. I think a hard-on should be gotten legitimately or not at all.
ben		Did you see that embroidered on a pillow somewhere?
vitti		Are you gonna help me or not?
ben		I don't believe this. All right. Has this happened before?
vitti		The dead dick thing? Never. Well, one time. Tonight. And another time.
ben		So twice?
vitti		Do the math. Two times.  There was another time. But it was after a big meal, so, you know, that don't count.
ben		Listen, being unable to perform three or four times --
vitti		Five.
ben		Five times -- it isn't the end of the world.
vitti		Maybe not to you -- look at you -- but if I can't get it up, that makes me less of a man and I can't have that. 
ben		 Okay.
vitti		I have until the end of the week to get strong or they're gonna eat me up. If they don't kill me in the meantime.
ben		What happens next week?
vitti		I can't tell you and you don't want to know.
ben		It's impossible. I can't do anything that fast. And even if I could, what's my goal here? To make you a happy, well-adjusted gangster?
vitti		Look, the other day I saw a commercial on television, some kid playing with a couple of puppies. I cried for 45 minutes. Slap a pair of tits on me, I'm a woman!
ben		I'm sorry.   I can't help you.
vitti		You're turning me down?
ben		Mr. Vitti, when I got into family therapy, this was not the family I had in mind. I'm turning you down.
vitti		You with your schmucky little office in your schmucky little house out there in Schmuckville -- you're turning me down? What, so you can spend more time listening to housewives piss and moan about how nobody fucks them right?
ben		I'd like to go now.
vitti		 You see this? This is what I'm talking about! I'm a dead man!
vitti		 You call yourself a doctor? You should be ashamed. A real doctor couldn't turn his back on a person who's suffering!
ben		 What happened with your wife tonight?
vitti		 I wasn't with my wife. I was with my girlfriend.
ben		You have a girlfriend? We could do two months on that alone.
vitti		What, you're gonna start moralizing with me now?
ben		Okay. Do you have marriage problems?
vitti		No.
ben		Then why do you have a girlfriend?
vitti		I do things with her I can't do with my wife.
ben		Why can't you do those things with your wife?
vitti		Hey. That's the mouth she kisses my children good night with. What's the matter with you?
ben		Okay, okay. Have you been under a lot of stress lately?
vitti		You mean like seeing your best friend murdered? Yeah, I got stress.
ben		Well, based on what you told me before about your attacks, I'd say that's probably it then.
vitti		It's just stress?
ben		I doubt if there's anything physically wrong with you.
vitti		 You.   You. You're very good.
ben		There's a lot more to it --
vitti		No, you're right. You're right on the money. I can feel the juices rushing back to my manhood as we speak.
ben		Well, I didn't need to know that.
vitti		This settles it. You're my shrink.
ben		I can't treat you, Mr. Vitti. I don't think you're really ready to open up and deal with --
vitti		Listen to you. The honesty. Nobody -- and I mean nobody -- talks to me like this. I'm ready. Let's do it.
ben		You don't hear the word 'no' that often, do you?
vitti		I hear it all the time. Only it's more like, 'No, no, please, no!'
ben		 All right. I'm here for two more days. When we get back to New York, I'll treat you exclusively for two weeks. I just need to figure out what to tell my other patients.
vitti		You want me to clear your schedule for you?
ben		No thanks, I'll handle it.   Now can I go?
vitti		Thank you.
laura		What is wrong with you? I woke up, you were gone, no note or anything. I've been going out of my mind, Ben. I walked all over the hotel looking for you. I almost called the police!
ben		Okay, listen. I'm going to tell you the truth. I had a serious patient emergency.
laura		You have patients in Florida?
ben		Just one. He followed me here from New York. I had to go.
laura		Who is this patient?
ben		Paul Vitti!  Paul Vitti.
laura		 Oh, Ben.
ben		I know.    But don't worry. It's not like   he's a real patient. He's got   this idea in his head that I'm   helping him. It's crazy.
laura		You're not going to treat him.
ben		No.
laura		Tell me you're not.
ben		I'm not!
laura		That would be too scary. You don't want a person like that in your life, believe me. I've covered the mob down here. I've seen what they can do.
ben		Listen, it's been taken care of. I told him I couldn't see him again. He understood and it's over.
laura		You sure?
laura		 I was so worried.
moony		It doesn't figure. We take out Manetta, what does Vitti do? Nothing. Why doesn't he move?
sindone		Fuck him.
moony		I'm telling you, Primo, he's planning something big. The shit is really gonna come down.
sindone		Then let it come down. Vitti's a tough guy but a lot of tough guys got fed to the crabs off Red Hook over the years.  You been down there a long time. Are you measuring my inseam or contemplating a lifestyle change?
moony		Primo?   What about Vitti?
sindone		Vitti. Vitti. The whole time we were growing up, he was the smart guy; I was the dope. My father was a nickel-and-dime shitheel; his father had it all. Vito Genovese blew it at Apalachin because he forgot to kill Gambino before the meeting. 
handsome jack		You got it, Primo.
laura		 Come on. Get into it.
ben		I don't understand. They jump out of the water, they splash, they eat fish. It's not a real stretch for a whale. If they did a number from West Side Story, then I'd be into it.
laura		Just stop.  We're having fun, right?
michael		Well, to be real honest. I'm not having as much fun as it looks like I am. I'm pretending, you know, because we have to bond and everything.
ben		 You've got to admire the openness.
michael		 Here comes the whale again!
jimmy		Fuck me!
ben		 I'm hungry. Yeah, I'm going to get a hot dog. Who wants a hot dog?
michael		 I'll go with you.
ben		No, I'll go. You're pretending to have a good time. I don't want to spoil that. Be right back.
ben		What is this?    Are you guys following me?
jimmy		Fuckin' fifteen-hundred dollar suit. You think the whales piss in that water?
jelly		No, I think they use the men's room next door at the Burger King.  Mr. Vitti wants to see you.
ben		Is this a joke?
jelly		You're an employee of Mr. Vitti's. That means you're on call twenty- four hours a day just like the rest of us.
ben		No, he and I discussed this. I told him I'd see him when I got got back to New York.
jelly		Don't be a skavootz. It is what it is. If he needs you sooner, you go.
ben		No, I'm not going, and if you bother me again I won't treat him at all. Understand? That's it. End of story.
boy		Asshole.
boy		Thanks, mister.
ben		They threw me in the shark tank, Paul. The shark tank!
vitti		They were trying to make a point.
ben		What, that you're a scary guy? I get it.
vitti		You're in a mood, you know that?
ben		Yeah, I get that way when a shark tries to chew on my ass.
vitti		Okay.   Okay.   Calm down.
ben		I don't want to calm down. My girl friend saw me all wet? I told her I fell into a tank with the manatees. I lied to her last night, now this. I don't like it.
vitti		Manatees.   That's a funny word. Manatees.
ben		I'm glad you're entertained. What's the problem?
vitti		Oh, I can tell you really care.
ben		Okay.   What's going on?
vitti		I had an episode. Not an actual panic attack, but I started panicking a little thinking I might have one. Does that seem weird to you?
ben		I'm redefining 'weird' on an hourly basis. What were you thinking about when you started feeling anxious?
vitti		I don't know. The usual bullshit. Family problems.
ben		Which family?  This one?
vitti		No, regular family.
ben		 I want you to draw a picture of a house. In the sand.
vitti		What kind of house? A warehouse? A whorehouse? My house? What house?
ben		A house.
vitti		Why?
ben		I'll tell you after you do it.
vitti		This is good. I come to Florida and draw pictures in the sand like a jerkoff.
tino		I don't know what they're doing. He's talking to some guy. Looks like Vitti is drawing something in the sand... What's he drawing? What am I, Superman? I'm a hundred yards away -- I can't see shit... No way, he's got that fat Jelly with him and his partner, Jimmy Boots. We could take him out with a rifle and a scope, but I don't have any of that shit with me. My scope's in the shop... Nah, it's a warranty item... Hey, don't sweat it. You told me to take care of him, I'll take care of him... Okay, I'll call you back.
vitti		There.   You happy?
ben		Where are the people?
vitti		What people?   You told me to draw a house.
ben		I know. But usually when people draw a house they draw people. Where are the people who live in your house?
vitti		Well, you see, they'd come out and say hello, but the whole family's in the Witness Protection Program. It's very sad. What the fuck you want from me?
ben		Okay, forget the house. I'm going to say some words, and you say the first thing that comes into your mind.
vitti		Good, more games. Shoot.
ben		Home --
vitti		-- plate.
ben		Mother --
vitti		-- fucker.
ben		Father --
vitti		-- forgive me for I have sinned.
ben		Wife?
vitti		 Love.
ben		Son?
ben		Son?
vitti		See this? Again with the crying. Let's get out of here. We're being watched. Don't look. There's Feds on the roof of the hotel.
ben		How do you know that?
vitti		I'm a criminal. It's my job.
agent ricci		Who's the new face?
agent steadman		I don't know. Get somebody down there to see what he drew in the sand.
agent provano		Whoever this guy is, he must be important to the family.
agent steadman		Maybe he's Vitti's new consigliere. Put his picture on the wire and see what you come up with.
vitti		Look at this, the whole crew.  You all right? Good flight?
marie		Yeah, we're fine. We're on our way to the pool. Kids, get your stuff. We'll get out of your way.
vitti		That's okay. Marie, this is a friend of mine, Ben Sobol.  He's -- from the boat. A fishing boat captain. Cuban refugee.
marie		 Nice to meet you, Senor Sobol.
ben		Gracias.
vitti		And this is Theresa and Anna --
anna		Anne.
vitti		-- Anna, and the big guy, Anthony.
anthony		How you doin'?
ben		Nice to meet you.
vitti		 Jesus, Theresa, you are not wearing that suit to the pool.
theresa		What do you want me to wear, a one-piece?
vitti		I want you to wear one of those Arab bathrobes with a veil over your face, is what I want.
theresa		Mom!
marie		Don't worry about it, Paul.    We'll be back in time for dinner.
vitti		Okay, babe.    Hey, Anthony.   Guess what I got?
anthony		What?
vitti		 Marlins and the Braves -- right behind home plate, tonight.
anthony		You and me?
vitti		Of course, you and me.  Have fun at the pool. Stay out of the deep end. And don't swim for a couple hours after you eat.
anthony		Okay, Papa.
vitti		 Send Jimmy down with them.
jelly		Already done.
ben		Nice family.    Cuban fishing boat captain?
vitti		I can't tell Marie you're a shrink. She'd worry, you know.
ben		About this? I think she'd be more worried about your career choice.
vitti		Just keep going with the therapy.
ben		You know, normally a patient wouldn't smoke or drink during a session.
vitti		 That's an interesting fact I'll have to remember if I'm ever on 'Jeopardy.'
ben		So tell me about your father.
vitti		My father. He was a big man in the neighborhood -- very well respected. Everybody loved him, God rest his soul.
ben		He passed away?
vitti		No, I just like saying 'God rest his soul.' Yeah, he passed away. He died when I was about twelve.
ben		How?
vitti		Heart attack.    Sudden thing.
ben		Were you and your father close?
vitti		Close? Yeah, you know, pretty close. I guess we weren't getting along that great right then.
ben		Why was that?
vitti		I was hangin'   out in the neighborhood.    I had a borghata -- like a kid   gang -- hooligan shit, nothin'   big. But my father didn't   like it.
ben		You fought about it?
vitti		He slapped the shit out of me.
ben		And then?
vitti		And then that night he died.
ben		How did that feel?
vitti		It felt great! How did it feel?  I don't know.
ben		Well, think about it. Were you angry, were you afraid? Sad?
vitti		Yeah, I guess.
ben		Any feelings of guilt?
vitti		About what?   I didn't kill him.
ben		I'm just speculating, but maybe in some way you wanted him to die.
vitti		Why would I want my father to die?
ben		Well, you said you were fighting. You were rebelling against his authority. There may have been some unresolved Oedipal conflict.
vitti		English.
ben		Oedipus was a Greek king who killed his father and married his mother.
vitti		Fuckin' Greeks.
ben		It's an   instinctual developmental drive.    The young boy wants to replace   his father so he can totally   possess his mother.
vitti		Are you saying I wanted to fuck my mother?
ben		It's a primal fantasy --
vitti		Have you seen my mother? That is the sickest fucking thing I've ever heard.
ben		It's Freud.
vitti		Well, then Freud's a sick fuck, and you are too for bringing it up.
belinda		Well, isn't this wonderful, all of us finally getting to spend some time together.
scott		All set for the big day, Ben?
ben		Can't wait, Scott.    Can I call you 'Scott?'
scott		My friends call me 'Captain.'
ben		Captain.
belinda		Well, if tomorrow goes as well as the rehearsal, I'd say it's going to be a beautiful wedding.
ben		Yes, thanks for going to all this trouble, and I have to thank you and the Captain for something else.
scott		For what?
ben		 For this.
laura		 Would you like a drink, because I'm definitely having eight or nine.
belinda		 Shall we go to the table?
scott		Ben, there's a lot I'd like to say to you, but I'm going to skip the big father-in-law speech because I know you've been married before.
ben		Technically, it wasn't considered a marriage. It was like the Korean War -- more of a police action.
scott		I served in Korea, son. I don't think you'd be laughing if you'd seen some of the things I saw.
ben		You're right.    Sorry.
ben		 Mr. Vitti! How are you? Mrs. Vitti! Honey, it's the Vittis!
vitti		 Look at everybody. Everybody's smiling, everybody's happy. Nice. This is Marie, my girls, my boy, then all these guys.
ben		Mr. and Mrs. Vitti, this is Laura, my fiancee.
vitti		Nice to meet you.
laura		 Thank you very much.
ben		And this is my son Michael.
vitti		Whoa.  He's a bruiser.  You ever want a job, you come talk to me, right?
michael		Seriously?
ben		Michael!
scott		You're Paul Vitti. The mobster.
ben		Mr. MacNamara -- uh --
vitti		Excuse me. Is that polite? Is it? I'm trying to be nice here. Do I walk up to you and go, 'You're whoever you are. The prick'?
marie		Paul!
ben		Mr. Vitti, this is Laura's father.
vitti		Yeah? Okay, well, sorry. But you should know, there is no mob, and, P.S., I personally have never been convicted of a crime.  We're nine for nine, right?
jelly		That's right.
vitti		 I heard about the wedding. Here you go. A little something for the bride and groom. God bless. You should live and be well.
laura		Mr. Vitti, we can't accept this.
vitti		Yeah, you can. Now, if you don't mind, I just need to borrow this guy for a couple of minutes, then that's it. I'm out of here. Okay?
laura		Okay. Then you leave us alone, right?
vitti		Of course. I wouldn't do anything to screw up your wedding.  Have a great night, everybody. Nice to meet you.
ben		 I've just got to talk to him for a sec. You okay?
laura		I've never been less okay.
ben		Great.
marie		I bet you eat a lot of fish since your fiance's in the business.
vitti		 Watch that door. And don't listen to what we say.
jelly		My ears are sealed.
vitti		 Okay, listen. I had a really weird dream last night.
ben		I feel like I'm having one right now. How could you interrupt our party?
vitti		You know, you're very rigid about certain things.
ben		Just tell me the dream.
vitti		Okay. I'm asleep. I hear a baby crying. I go to the refrigerator, I get a bottle of milk, I take it to the baby, but when I go to give it to him, I see that the milk is black.
jelly		That's fuckin' weird.
vitti		Okay, get out of here!
jelly		Sorry.
vitti		 What's it mean? And I don't want to hear any more filth about my mother.
ben		I don't know what it means.   What does it mean to you?
vitti		This is what I'm paying you for? I say something, you say it right back to me? I could get Jelly to do this for nothing.
ben		Then get Jelly.
ben		Mr. MacNamara.
vitti		 Why don't you look over that way before I have to bust your fuckin' head open?
jelly		I'm gonna get something to eat. You want like a sandwich or somethin'?
bodyguard		Yeah. What kinda sandwich isn't too fattening?
jelly		A half a sandwich.
bodyguard		Sounds good.
jelly		I'll be back in about twenty minutes.
scott		 Nod your head and smile. Now, you listen to me, goombah. I know what your game is, and you'd better call it quits, because if you and your paisans do anything to hurt my little girl, I'll kill you. Understand? Nod and smile.
laura		 What was that about?
ben		Nothing. Your father thinks I'm in the Mafia.
laura		Oh.
ben		Let's get married.
justice		If any man here knows why these two people should not be joined in holy matrimony, let him speak now or forever hold his peace.
vitti		 You get the car, bring it around to the back and wait for me.
ben		That's it.   I've had it with you!
vitti		What happened?
ben		What happened? I just saw a man fall seven stories into a platter of poached salmon! That's what happened.
vitti		Did he break anything?
ben		Yes. Everything! They're still picking the capers out of his forehead.
vitti		Hey, people get depressed, they jump. It's a human tragedy, but it's not my fault.
ben		You're telling me it was suicide?
vitti		 I think he left a note. Jelly, did they find that note?
jelly		No, but they will in a minute.
ben		Oh, yeah, here it is. 
vitti		Enough talking. We got to get out of here. The place is crawling with feds. I'm going back to New York and I suggest you do the same. They're probably onto you too now.
ben		Onto me? What are you talking about? Being an accessory to murder was not part of our understanding.
vitti		Hey, why you busting my balls? I didn't kill him. I can't speak for everyone in the room, but --  The son-of-a-bitch came after me! It was self-defense. Trust me, Doc. In this one, we're the good guys.
ben		Laura!
laura		 How could you do that?
vitti		Great.  Another country heard from.  Get her outta here.
ben		Honey, why don't you wait downstairs?
laura		Why, they're going to throw me off the balcony, too?  I am thirty -- over thirty years old and all my life I have dreamed of walking down the aisle in a beautiful white dress and marrying the man I love.
vitti		That's a beautiful dress.
laura		Thank you, but it's not about the dress! We were supposed to get married!
vitti		You're upset.
laura		Of course I'm upset!  I'm going downstairs to pack, then I'm going to New York and I'm getting married with you or without you. Okay?
ben		I'll be right there.  Everything's going to be all right. I promise.
ben		Are you happy now?      You ruined my life!
vitti		What, you think I wanted this? I'm the victim here! I swear, I'm going to kill that son-of-a-bitch!
ben		Is that all you know? Do you hear yourself? I knew this would happen. 
vitti		Just 'cause of this?
ben		Of course because of this! You don't have even the tiniest shred of human decency. All you know is threats and violence and that's all you'll ever know and I can't be around that!
vitti		What do you want me to do?
sindone		How come I can't get on this show? This is a good show.
moony		Primo. You got a phone call. It's Paul Vitti.
sindone		 Hello?
vitti		Primo, it's Paul Vitti.
sindone		Yeah, how's it goin'?
vitti		Not good. Whoever killed Dominic is shooting at me now and I'm having a lot of feelings about it and I'd like to get some kinda --
ben		Closure.
vitti		-- closure on this.
sindone		What kind of feelings?
vitti		I feel very angry, you know. Very, uh, enraged. Mad. Real mad.
sindone		So why you telling me?
vitti		Why am I telling you? Like you had nothing to do with it?
sindone		I don't know what you're talking about.
vitti		Okay, whatever, I just wanted to tell you how I feel because I know that anger is --
ben		A blocked wish --
vitti		-- a blocked wish, and I'm getting my wish unblocked and I'm looking forward to getting some closure -- 
sindone		Vaffancul'!
sindone		Get a dictionary and find out what this 'closure' is. If that's what he's hitting us with, I want to know what the hell it is.
vitti		Good?
ben		Yeah, right up until the shoving the balls. You can't keep doing this! You want to get physical? Take a walk. Get a punching bag. Hit a pillow.
vitti		There's your fucking pillow.
ben		Feel better now?
vitti		Yeah, I do.
ben		Call the Vatican. Ask them if anything's missing.
michael		So cool!
janet		Michael, get your bags out of the car, please.
michael		It's almost as tall as the house!
ben		 He felt bad. It's a wedding gift.
laura		Well, we're not married, so I guess we'll have to send it back.
ben		Hey, don't blame me. You didn't want to finish the ceremony.
laura		What did you expect? You think that's what I want to remember on our anniversary? 'Gee, honey, let's go look at the wedding video. There's my parents, there's your parents, and there's the guy who plunged to his death.'
ben		I just want to marry you.
laura		I'm starting to think that's not going to happen.
ben		Come on. Next Saturday. It's all set. I even asked for a room with a low ceiling, just to discourage the jumpers.
laura		And who's going to be there?
ben		Us three, a clergyman, and any family members who've completed their crisis counseling.
laura		And no guests without necks. Everybody has to have a neck.
ben		We'll do a neck check at the door.
agent steadman		 Doctor Sobol, Mrs. Sobol -- I'm Agent Steadman, Agent Ricci, Agent Provano, Federal Bureau of Investigation, O.C.D.
ben		 Obsessive-compulsive disorder?
agent provano		Organized Crime Division. We need to talk.
michael		The FBI! This is better than the fountain!
ben		Michael, go to your room.
michael		But --
ben		Go!
michael		Fine. I can hear better in there anyway.
ben		 So.   FBI.
agent steadman		Can you explain these photographs, Doctor Sobol?
ben		I'm a psychotherapist.    Paul Vitti is my patient.
laura		Was your patient.
ben		Right.   Was.   That's what I meant.
laura		But not like a real patient.
ben		Right.
provano		So why did he send you that fountain?
ben		That was a gift to celebrate the completion of his therapy. We got our television from an agoraphobic, so it's not that unusual -- you know, maybe you should discuss this with my attorney.
laura		Yeah, maybe you should.
agent steadman		Doctor Sobol, Paul Vitti is an extremely dangerous man. We're talking conspiracy, fraud, extortion, racketeering, grand theft, murder...
ben		Well, yeah, but don't forget, the man is a sociopath. You've got to expect that kind of behavior --
ben		Excuse me, fellas. My folks are here and I'd like to -- well, die would be my first choice. Can I go out?
agent ricci		It's your house.
laura		Too bad you didn't remember that when you were breaking in.
ben		 Honey, maybe the federal agents would like something to drink? Could you see what we have?
laura		 No.
ben		 I tried, guys.
ben		Hi!   What a surprise.
dorothy		That certainly makes a statement. It's a little big for the yard, don't you think?
ben		What can I tell you, Mom? It looked much smaller in the store.
isaac		Think it'll affect your water pressure?
ben		I think it'll affect the tides. What are you doing here?
dorothy		Your father and I are just very concerned about what happened in Florida.
isaac		How was your flight home? Anyone hang themselves in first class.
dorothy		We got in last night, we couldn't sleep a wink. Is Laura inside?
ben		Yeah, but she and Michael are spending some time alone, you know, getting to know each other. That's important. I don't want to disturb that dynamic.
dorothy		 So you're not going to invite us in?
ben		 No.
dorothy		 Well, I'm going to wait in the car. There's too much spray.
isaac		All right. What's with you and Paul Vitti?
ben		Well, Dad, I'm not at liberty to discuss that.
isaac		He's your patient? Are you joking? Have you thought about what this could do to your reputation?
ben		You, know, I always wanted to be great, but then I realized that I might have to settle for just being good enough. Now I've got this guy who's hurting and I'm thinking that if I can help this guy, maybe I can be a little bit great.
isaac		Jesus, Ben, you're the one who's going to be hurting. I want you to stop seeing him.
ben		Didn't you read your own book? Instead of trying to run my life, why don't you just close your eyes, take a deep breath, tell me what you feel, tell me what you want.
isaac		 This is bullshit.
ben		You wrote it.
isaac		Okay.  I love you -- and I'm afraid for you -- I want you to be safe -- and I want you to have a good life.
ben		 Is that really it?
isaac		That's it.
ben		You know why I became a shrink? Because I grew up with a great one walking around the house.
isaac		I thought you became a shrink because you were sleeping with your psychology professor at Columbia.
ben		Yes, and because of you.
ben		Okay, so you were saying?
agent steadman		Let me cut to the chase. Sometime in the next week or so, the heads of every major crime family in the United States are going to meet together somewhere in the New York area.
agent provano		We think the stage is set for a major bloodbath. Has he mentioned anything about it to you?
laura		A bloodbath?
ben		No. If he said anything about a bloodbath, I probably would've remembered it. Bloodbath is one of those words that, you know, stands out in a conversation.
agent steadman		 You could really help us out by supplying information about that meeting.
ben		And if I don't?
agent steadman		If you don't, I will personally make your life a living hell. I want you to think about that and call me at this number when you change your mind.
ben		You mean if I change my mind.
agent steadman		I mean when.
laura		 Okay. Guess what, fellas? You don't scare me.
ben		Laura --
laura		Sit down! 
agent steadman		We'll be in touch.
ben		 Laura, that was really --
laura		 Oh, shut up!
masiello		Paul, I don't mean this in a disrespectful way. You know I was a good friend to your father and I will always be a good friend to you. But the word is out that you've been talking to a shrink. Is that right?
vitti		What's the point here?
masiello		This concerns the whole family. Right now, we're the only ones who know about it, but if it gets out on the street -- what then? Who knows what you've been saying in there?
vitti		It's none of anybody's business what I say in there.
masiello		Paul, I beg to differ. If you're doing this to establish some kind of insanity defense later, that's one thing. But everybody's gonna think you're falling apart, and that ain't good. They'll take it as a sign of weakness, and that makes us all vulnerable. Sindone would take over everything.
vitti		So what do you want me to do?
masiello		It's time to end it.
vitti		What do you mean, end it?
masiello		Get rid of this shrink.   He knows too much already.
vitti		You want me to whack my doctor?
masiello		If you don't do it, somebody else will. It's the only way.
vitti		No. Nobody touches him. You hear me? Anybody lays a finger on him, I'll kill 'em. Is that clear?
ben		I'm going to buy some fruit. You want anything?
vitti		No, go ahead.
vitti		Papa!   Papa!
vitti		You look lousy. You all right.
ben		Listen, Paul, please don't send me any more gifts.
vitti		You didn't like the fountain?
ben		That's not the point.   It's a boundary issue.
vitti		Boundary issue? I say if more people gave from the heart, we'd all be better off. Let's see your watch.  Piece of junk. You're getting a Rolex.
ben		Don't buy me a Rolex.
vitti		Who said anything about buying it?
ben		Listen, I really need to talk to you.
vitti		Tommy Angels. We grew up together. Worked for a crew out of Jersey City.
ben		How did he die?
vitti		He was on his way to talk to a federal prosecutor. Got hit by a truck -- twice.
ben		Do I need to know that? I'm having nightmares as it is.
ben		Last night I dreamed we were walking down the street, I stopped to buy some fruit, and they shot me -- like Brando in The Godfather.
vitti		Good scene.    Was I there?
ben		You dropped your gun, then you ran over to me and started yelling, 'Papa, Papa!'
vitti		I was Fredo.    I don't think so.
vitti		You're losing it, Doc.   You may need therapy yourself.
vitti		Him I don't know. Let's get private.
ben		Don't you see? You called me 'Papa.' It's all about your father.
vitti		What're you, nuts? It was your dream.
ben		Yes, but that's what your black milk dream was about, too.
vitti		Uh-uh. I don't buy it. In my dream, I'm bringing the baby the black milk.
ben		Freud believed you're everyone in your dreams.
vitti		Yeah, well, that guy I don't need to hear about. I can't even call my mother on the phone after that thing you told me.
ben		Let's say you are the baby. What kind of milk did you get from your father?
vitti		Could we stop talking about my father?
ben		 Fuck you. Nobody helps Paul Vitti.
vitti		Very good. Now I'll do you. 'Boo-fuckin'-hoo.' I never said this would be easy. Let's see how you like it. Let's talk about your father.
ben		Let's not.
vitti		Is he still alive?
ben		Yes, he's still alive.
vitti		What kind of work does he do?
ben		 That's not important.
vitti		You paused.
ben		What?
vitti		You paused. That means you had a feeling. What does he do?
ben		He's a psychiatrist.
vitti		Ooh, you're fucked up.   Next patient, please.
ben		We're running out of time, Paul. Let's not waste it talking about my problems.
vitti		Your father's a problem?
ben		No!
vitti		That's what you just said!   You seem upset.
ben		I'm not upset!
vitti		Hey, I'm good at this.
ben		We have three days left. If you want to spend it screwing around, I can't help you.  Call me when you're ready to get serious.
vitti		Say hello to your father for me!
potatoes		We could just pop him right now.
handsome jack		In front of a church? What are you, a fuckin' animal? It's a holy place.
potatoes		Is the sidewalk holy, too? I mean, where does the holiness end?
handsome jack		 I don't know. Second Avenue?
ben		 What do you want me to do?
masiello		Paul, he talked to the Feds.
vitti		I know this guy. He would never talk to the Feds.
masiello		The FBI was at his house today.
jimmy		It's the truth.   I saw 'em.
masiello		You'll see. Next thing is he's gonna call you and ask for a meeting.
vitti		Come on.   You don't know this guy.
jelly		It's Dr. Sobol. He says he needs to see you right away.
jelly		Sit up front with Jimmy.
ben		 You want me to sit in front? Paul usually sits in front.
jimmy		So this time you'll sit up front. Why you making a federal case?
ben		 Federal case? I'm not making a federal case? Let's go.
ben		 So what's everybody doing this summer?
vitti		This is Ben. He's a friend of mine.  Say hello to Carlo Mangano.
mangano		How you doin'?
vitti		 Carlo was on my father's crew. He's always been like a -- I don't know -- like a cousin to me.
mangano		I am your cousin.
vitti		I know, that's what I'm saying. It's like a family thing. The closeness.
mangano		Anything you need, anything I can do for you, Paul, you know. I'm here for you.
vitti		I know. So did you take care of that thing I asked you about?
mangano		Is it all right to talk business in front of your friend?
vitti		It's okay.
mangano		Yeah, I took care of it.
vitti		How about that other thing?
mangano		I'm waiting for that first thing to come through. I can't move until it does.
vitti		Did the guy give you a problem?
mangano		A little.    He's a lunatic.
vitti		You always gotta nip that shit in the bud.
mangano		Yeah. But if the first thing is okay, that should fix everything.
vitti		Including the second thing.
mangano		Yeah, but --
vitti		Exactly.  Don't repeat any of that to anyone.
ben		What? The first thing or the second thing?
vitti		That's Stevie Beef over there. I gotta go say hello to him for a second.  Come on.
ben		Stevie Beef. Interesting name. When he was younger they probably called him Stevie Veal.  You guys come here often?
jelly		Paretti's has a very special meaning to Paul.
jimmy		Yeah, this is where his father got whacked.
jelly		Hey!
jimmy		What's the big secret?
ben		 Wait a second. Paul's father was murdered?
jimmy		Right at that table.   With his whole family there.
jelly		Hey, just shut up.
ben		Paul, too?   He was there?
jelly		He don't like to talk about it.
jimmy		Where you goin'?
ben		Bathroom.
jelly		I'll go with you.
ben		I gotta -- you know -- poop.
ben		Ahhhh!
jelly		You need more roughage. A bran muffin in the morning would help with that.
ben		I have to talk to you -- in private.
vitti		 Leave us alone.
ben		Why didn't you tell me about your father?
vitti		What about him?
ben		You said he died of a heart attack.
vitti		So what's the problem?
ben		What's the problem?   Your father was murdered!
vitti		Heart attack, murdered, what's the difference? He's dead.
ben		There's a big difference.   Why didn't you tell me?
vitti		Because it's private. You think I tell you every little thing?
ben		That is not a little thing!
vitti		Okay, you want to know? Analyze this. I was twelve years old, the whole family was having dinner together right over there, two guys walked in and shot him dead right in front of us. Okay?
ben		And you didn't think this was important enough to tell me?
vitti		What am I supposed to do? Spend the rest of my life crying about the past? Forget about it.
ben		You know what? I think you want to talk about it.
vitti		No, I don't want to talk about it.
ben		I think you do.
vitti		No, I don't.
ben		Then why did you choose this restaurant?
vitti		'Cause I like it, okay?
ben		Of all the places we could've gone, why this one?
vitti		White clam sauce. The best.
ben		No, we're here because you wanted me to know about your father. You're reaching out to me.
vitti		I'll reach out to you --
ben		I think we have some major trust issues here.
sindone		 I'd like to see a movie but there's nothing out there. It's all this shoot-'em-up action bullshit. I get enough of that at work.
moony		That was our friend. He marked your guy at Paretti's.
sindone		Yeah? Then let's make it the last supper. Jack?
handsome jack		You got it, Primo.  Let's go.
sindone		 Hey, Jack. Just for fun, tear out his heart and bring it to me.
ben		Jimmy, you can have shotgun this time. I don't mind.
jimmy		Nah, sit up front. There's more room for your legs.
ben		My legs are short, it's fine in the back.
jimmy		Get in the front.
ben		You know what? It's late. I think I'm just going to call it a night. Why don't I just grab a cab and head on home.
jimmy		Get in the car.
ben		No really, it's all right.
jimmy		 Get in the fucking car.
vitti		Do what he says.
ben		You know, we call this a transference neurosis. It's when the patient starts acting out his problems with his therapist instead of out in the world. It's usually considered a good sign. Not for me, in this case, but --
agent ricci		What's he doing in there? He's been in the bathroom for half an hour.
vitti		 Leave us alone.
jelly		Sorry, Doc.    It's not personal, you know.
ben		Don't kid yourself, Jelly. It doesn't get more personal than this.
vitti		You know why I have to do this, don't you?
ben		Because you're a paranoid? No, actually you're a reverse paranoid. You think you're out to get everybody.
vitti		Don't bullshit me! You betrayed me! You stabbed me in the back.
ben		I betrayed you? What are you talking about? Who's got the gun?
vitti		You think I'm an idiot? Don't insult my intelligence. You cooperated! You talked to the Feds!
ben		They played me a tape! You said you were going to kill me.
vitti		Never.   I never said that.
ben		It doesn't matter. I didn't betray you, Paul. Yes, they made me wear a wire, but I took it off, because I think I know how to help you now.
vitti		I don't want to know what you think.
ben		Yes, you do.
vitti		No, I don't!
ben		I think you do.
vitti		 It's over! Don't you get it? I took one chance and that's it.
ben		Okay.  Can I ask you one last question?
vitti		 What?
ben		What did you order?
vitti		What?
ben		What did you order?
vitti		When?
ben		That night. What were you eating the night your father got killed?
vitti		How the hell do I know?
ben		You don't remember?
vitti		It was 35 years ago.
ben		What did your father have?
vitti		I told you!   I don't remember.
ben		Try.
vitti		What's the matter with you?
ben		It's a simple question.    What was your father eating!
vitti		 Penne.
ben		Good.    And you.
vitti		Ravioli.
ben		The food was on the table?
vitti		They were just serving it.
ben		Did you see the guys coming?
vitti		One of them.   Dressed like a busboy.
ben		Did your father see him?
vitti		No, but I knew he looked wrong.
ben		Why?
vitti		His pants. They looked too good for a busboy.
ben		He walked over to the table?
vitti		I watched him the whole way.
ben		Did you say anything?
vitti		My father was so mad at me.
ben		And you were mad at him.
vitti		I couldn't say anything.
ben		And then.
vitti		I never saw the second guy.    My mother started screaming.
ben		And you blame yourself?
vitti		I coulda saved him.
ben		But you were mad at him.
vitti		 I killed my father.
ben		You didn't kill him, Paul. You were angry but you didn't kill him. That's the life he chose.
vitti		I never got to say good-bye.
ben		Say it now, Paul. Talk to him. What do you want to tell him?
vitti		I can't.
ben		You have to.   Tell him, Paul.
vitti		 I'm sorry. I'm so sorry.
ben		It's okay, Paul. You can let go of it now.
jimmy		What's taking so long?   I'm ruining my goddamn shoes here.   Fuckin' $350 Bruno Maglis.
jelly		What's wrong with you? Don't you have any respect? This is a very difficult thing for Paul.
jimmy		Shoulda let me do it. I'd be home watchin' E.S.P.N.2 by now. World's strongest man. You should see these guys.
ben		You couldn't save him, Paul. He was trying to save you. That's what you fought about. He didn't want this for you, and you don't want it for Anthony. You don't want him to grow up the way you did -- without a father.
jelly		Jesus, the guy's fallin' apart.
jimmy		Why doesn't he just pop him?   It's embarrassing.
ben		Your father's not dead, Paul. He's alive -- in you. And he's trying to tell you something.
ben		Oh, my God!
ben		 Paul!   They're shooting!
jelly		 He FIRES back at Handsome Jack.
potatoes		 He rakes the Lincoln with a BURST from the ASSAULT RIFLE.
ben		Paul! For God's sake, shoot somebody!
handsome jack		 He sees Potatoes fall and starts moving out, covering his retreat with another BURST from his MACHINE GUN.
ben		Goddamn it!
jelly		 He sees Handsome Jack emerge from cover and takes him out with FIVE QUICK SHOTS.
handsome jack		 He goes down FIRING, dead before he hits the ground.
scrap yard		 It's suddenly quiet. After a long moment, Jimmy rolls over and moans. Jelly goes to him and starts examining his wound.
ben		Oh my God!    Did I do that?
jelly		No, Doc. That one's mine. You got the Chevy Camaro and the side-by-side refrigerator-freezer.
vitti		Pretty fuckin' ironic, isn't it? You can give me back the gun now, Doctor.
vitti		It's okay. I wasn't really gonna whack you.  All right, maybe I was gonna whack you, but I was real conflicted about it. Progress, right?
ben		I don't think I can see you anymore.
vitti		Yeah, I figured.
ben		This was big tonight. You might feel a little raw for a while.
vitti		Yeah.
ben		So good luck.    It's been --
elaine		I want to please him in bed, but whatever I do it seems like it's never enough. Now he wants me to say things when we're making love.
ben		What kinds of things does he want you to say, Elaine?
elaine		Well, he wants me to call him 'big boy.' And he's my bucking bronco, and I'm supposed to ride him hard and put him back in the barn wet.
elaine		Are you all right, Dr. Sobol?
ben		Let me suggest something, Elaine. If the man wants you to say things ... damn it, you should get down on all fours and bark like a dog if that's going to get the job done. Break out the wine, baby. Smoke a joint. Do what you have to do, because life is too short. It's just too fucking short.
elaine		Okay.
jelly		How you feelin', boss?   You need anything?
vitti		No, I'm great. Never felt better in my life. When this meeting is over they won't know what hit 'em.
dorothy		Is Ben going to step on the glass?
isaac		No. He doesn't want to hurt his foot, so they're going to drop a person on it.
rabbi		We are put on this earth to find a love, a soulmate, someone with whom we can create joy. How glad we are today that Ben and Laura have found each other, and we anticipate and celebrate the years of joy they will share together from this day on.
rabbi		Ben, do you take this woman, Laura, to be your lawfully wedded wife, for richer, for poorer, in sickness and in health, 'til death do you part, so help you God?
ben		 No!
rabbi		Excuse me?
ben		No, not you.    I was talking to him.
rabbi		Who him?
ben		It's not important.     Yes.
rabbi		Yes what?
ben		Yes to the thing before. To her. That's a yes. Pick it up from there.
jelly		 Hi, kid.
laura		I do not believe this!
jelly		 Haul ass, buddy. We got a problem.
laura		Who the hell do you think you are?
jelly		 Tick tock, let's go. Hurry up and pronounce them, huh?
rabbi		By the power vested me by the state of New York, I now pronounce you man and wife.
jelly		Okay.   Kiss, kiss --
jelly		I'm sorry about this, Mrs. Sobol, but duty calls, you know?
laura		 Oh. You're the first person to call me Mrs. Sobol.
jelly		Nice, huh?
laura		No.
ben		Laura, I'm sorry. It's the job.
laura		Go.  Just go.  Have him back here by the salad course or you're in serious trouble. Capiche?
jelly		You're a pistol.  I like her.
jelly		He's bad, Doc. Worse than I ever seen him. I think his inner child is all fucked up.
ben		Have you ever seen an episode like this?
jelly		Yes. Once on 'Bonanza,' Hoss Cartwright got bit by a raccoon. He got this fever and he was shaking --
ben		Never mind.
jelly		This is serious, Doc. If he doesn't make this meeting, they'll kill him for sure.
ben		Can't someone else in the family go for him? Tommy the Tongue? Louie the Lip? What about you? You go?
jelly		That would work except for one little detail. I'm a fucking moron. I'm known for it.  You have to go.
ben		Me?   You must be a moron.
jelly		Hey!   Watch that.
ben		You just said it yourself.
jelly		It's different when I say it. When you say it, it sounds very negative.
ben		I'm sorry, Jelly, but I'm not going. I'm not on the payroll anymore, so forget about it. My wife is waiting --
jelly		Doc.
jelly		Correction. Mr. Vitti couldn't shoot you. But here's something about me you should know. I never got married, Doctor Sobol. I don't have a hobby. I never got a dog or a cat. I don't even have a goldfish. I live for one reason only, and that's to serve Mr. Paul Vitti. He's what I'm thinking about when I wake up, and he's what I'm thinking about when I close my eyes to sleep. If he told me to jump off a tall building, not only would I do it, I would hope to survive so I could do it again and again until he told me to stop. This is all I know. This is all I got. So please don't think I won't kill you, because I'd hate for your last thought to be a wrong one. You're going to that meeting.
steadman		 Which one is it?
agent provano		The black one.
jimmy		 Just remember. That's a fuckin' $1200 Valentino suit. You spill anything on it, I'll mess you up good.
jelly		Shut up. You're making him nervous. If he gets nervous and fucks up, they'll kill him for sure.  Let's go over it again.
ben		This is insane.
jelly		Mr. Vitti's been detained, apologies all around, blah, blah, blah. Then you say you're the new consigliere, and you're prepared to speak for Mr. Vitti.
ben		Then what?
jelly		Then you just keep your mouth shut, and hope nobody asks you nothin'.
jimmy		Boy, this is some fuckin' plan.
jelly		Shut up.  If you have to talk, just be vague. Can you do that?
ben		I'm a psychologist.   Believe me, I can be vague.
vitti		Shouldn't you be outside playing or something?
anthony		No, it's all right.
vitti		How long you gonna sit there?
anthony		 How long you gonna lay there?
vitti		I'm done.
ben		 I can't do this. I'm telling you, I cannot do this.
jelly		Don't fucking whine! Whining's a dead giveaway. Come on! You're the consigliere, for Chrissake.
ben		These are the bosses? That one looks like my Uncle Max.
mangano		 What's goin' on? Where's Vitti?
jelly		On his way.   Don't worry.
mangano		What's he doin' here?
jelly		He's -- it's okay. Forget about it.
mangano		Forget about it? What the hell is that?
sindone		Who's the guy with Jelly?
moony		I don't know.
ben		 I can't do this.
moony		All right, gentlemen. I think we better start. We have a big agenda, so for now let's stick to the big issues. And it would help if you identify yourselves when you speak, since we don't all know each other, and we didn't think anybody would be into wearing any fucking name tags.
sindone		I'm Primo Sindone. They call me Sonny Long. It's good to see so many of the old faces here, and to welcome the new ones from all over the country. I see Frank Zello, and Joe Baldassare, but I'm a little disappointed to see that the head of our other New York family isn't here today. All I see is his man Jelly and some sawed-off little prick nobody knows.
jelly		 Yeah, well, the thing is Mr. Vitti has been detained and he sends his apologies for -- being detained -- and he apologizes for his -- detainment.
sindone		Detained? What kind of bullshit is that? What's more important than this? As the host of this meeting, I take his not being here as a sign of disrespect to me and to all these other men, too, who came a long way to be here.
jelly		Mr. Vitti meant no disrespect. The thing is, he's not feeling well. He's sick and he -- didn't feel well --
ben		 Jelly! We don't ever discuss Mr. Vitti's health outside the family. You know better.
sindone		All right, who is this guy and what the fuck is he doing here?
ben		In answer to your first question, my name is Ben Sobol --  -- leone. Sobboleone. They call me -- 'The doctor.' As for your second question. I'm here representing Paul Vitti. As his conser -- conghili --
jelly		 Consigliere --
ben		 Don't you ever correct me again! As his consigliere, I'm intimately involved in all aspects of the family business and I'm prepared to speak for Mr. Vitti on all matters.
sindone		Okay, Doctor, then let's get down to business. Everybody knows there's been this thing between me and Paul Vitti for a long time.
ben		Which thing are you talking about? The first thing or the second thing?
sindone		What second thing? I only know one thing.
ben		Well, I don't see how we can discuss the first thing without bringing up the second thing. Didn't you talk to the guy?
sindone		What guy?
ben		The guy with the thing.
sindone		What thing? What the fuck are you talking about?
ben		How should I know? You brought it up.  This is the whole problem. You can't have an intelligent conversation with the man.
sindone		How about if I just break your fuckin' neck? What do you think of that?
ben		It's not important what I think. What do you think?
sindone		What do I think? I think it's a good idea! Why would I say it if I didn't think it was good?
ben		I don't know.    Why would you?
sindone		 I wouldn't! That's what I'm saying!
ben		Have you always had a problem dealing with your anger?
sindone		What are you talking about?
ben		What do you think I'm talking about?
sindonsindone		 I don't know what the fuck you're talking about!
ben		See, you're angry again. Do you feel you have to get angry to be heard?
sindone		What's he talking about?
zello		I don't know. But you do have a tendency to get angry a lot.
baldassare		I agree, Primo.
sindone		I'm trying to talk about Vitti! Why are we talking about me?
ben		Interesting. Do you feel you're not worthy enough to be talked about?
sindone		What does that mean?
ben		What do you think it means?
sindone		Fuck you!
zello		Primo, calm down.
sindone		Calm down? How can I calm down when this prick won't stop with the questions?
ben		Could you pass the fruit, please?
sindone		That's it!   You're a dead man!
vitti		 Wait outside with the car running.
ben		What are you doing here?
vitti		Saving your ass. Sit down.    I'll take it from here.
vitti		 I'm Paul Vitti. I'm sorry I was late. Those of you who know me will know I meant no disrespect. If it's all right with you, there's something I'd like to say, then I'll leave you to your business.
vitti		About two and a half weeks ago, somebody killed my friend, Dominic Manetta.
sindone		Don't look at me. Everybody knows you whacked him so you could take over everything.
vitti		What I really came here to say is that I've come to a very important decision in my life. I want out.
vitti		I'm going away for a while, but I will respect the oath I took the day I was made, and whatever I know about anyone else's business, I take with me to the grave. You have my word.
vitti		As for my own organization, I know Carlo Mangano would like to be the new boss.
mangano		Thank you, Paul.
vitti		That's why he betrayed Dominic and me to our enemies and sent his own man to kill me in Miami.
vitti		But I leave it to my people to deal with that and choose their own boss. And even though it's my right, I won't take revenge, mostly because I'm in a good place mentally and feeling good about me.
zello		 I don't know, Paul. I can see where some people might have a problem with this.
vitti		I realize that, so as an extra token of good faith between us, I've taken the liberty of writing down everything I know and putting it in a safe deposit box in case anything happens to me or my family.
zello		I don't know what anybody else thinks, but I say good luck and God bless, Paul.
baldassare		Good luck, Paul. Salut.
ben		 Well done.
vitti		Let's move.
sindone		Vitti!
vitti		I don't want to do this, Primo.
sindone		You don't want to do this? That's fuckin' rich. What did you think, you could just quit and walk away? You think this is a fuckin' civil service job? What are you, crazy?
vitti		Not anymore.  Hey, Carlo, tell me. You gonna stab me in the back like the piece of shit I always knew you were?
mangano		I'm not gonna stab you in the back, Paul. I want to see your face when I do it.
vitti		I don't think so.  Mo-Mo!
vitti		Bigs!
vitti		Eddie!
vitti		It's over, Primo. Now get the fuck outta here.
ben		Good thinking. I was going to bring a machine gun but I don't have one. Of course, we haven't opened the wedding gifts yet.
zello		Oh, shit.
agent ricci		 Don't move! Don't you fucking move!
sindone		Hey!   Take a pill, Robocop.
vitti		 I can't believe it. You took a bullet for me. What doctor ever did that much for a patient? I'll never forget that.
ben		Paul -- I tripped.
vitti		Yeah. You tripped over your unconscious.
donny		I don't think my mother really listens when I talk. She never listened.
vitti		And how does that make you feel?
donny		It makes me feel angry.
vitti		I'll bet you feel hurt, too, don't you?
donny		 Yes, I do.
ben		Paul, what would you say about what Donny's feeling?
vitti		Donny, when you're thirsty, you don't go to the wall -- you go to the well. You know what I'm saying? Your mother may never be able to listen to you, but you have friends here who will. Okay?
ben		And be patient, Donny. Most people's problems take months, sometimes years to resolve.
donny		I'm doing twenty-five to life.
ben		That should be plenty of time.
ben		You know they found Primo Sindone dead in a field near LaGuardia.
vitti		I heard.  I had nothing to do with it. There were guys lined up from Canarsie to Atlantic City who wanted to whack that bastard.
ben		Okay, just checking.
vitti		You know, Doc, I don't think I ever thanked you properly for curing me.
ben		We don't say 'cured.' We say you had a 'corrective emotional experience.'
vitti		You, you, you're very good.
ben		 No.   You. You.
ben		Happy?
laura		I just can't get used to it.
ben		What?
laura		It's been three weeks since the last time you were kidnapped. I don't know if I can adjust.
ben		What do you say, Tony?   One more?
tony bennett		Whatever you want, Dr. Sobol. My friend told me to stay as long as you wanted me. What do you want to hear, Mrs. Sobol?
laura		Your choice, Tony.
tony bennett		I was hoping you'd say that.  'World on a String,' fellas.
****Dialogues from script :anastasia.txt****

sonya		 Princess Anastasia - you're late and it's all my  fault!
anastasia		Don't worry, Sonya, no one'll notice. . .
anastasia		 . . .  owwwwwwwww!
ivar		 You're a servent! Never forget your place!
dmitiri		 Someday my place will be out there!
ivar		Never! You're a peasant, Dmitri! Back in the kitchen
tatiana		Why were you so late tonight
anastasia		I was showing Sonya something . . .
tatiana		What were you showing her?
anastasia		 How to read.
tatiana		I thought you were told not to tutor your servants anymore.
anastasia		I know, but I had to because . . .
anastasia		 Oh, Grandmama, why do you have to go back to Paris?
tatiana		It's where I've made my home but I do have something for you . . .
anastasia		"Together in Paris"! Oh, when can we be "together in Paris?!
tatiana		When you're older . . .
tatiana		Until then, whenever you hear this song, think of me and know that I'm waiting for you.
nicholas		Rasputin!  You're alive . . .
rasputin		 Despite being shot, poisoned and thrown into an icy river . . . YES!
nicholas		 I had nothing to do with it!
rasputin		You gave the orders!
nicholas		I did no such thing!
rasputin		After all I've done for your family - YOU TRIED TO KILL MEEEEEE ! ! !
anastasia		NO!
anastasia		We're not afraid of you!
rasputin		 You . . .  my little babushka . . . you'll be so much fun to kill that I'll save you for last!
rasputin		THIS IS THE END OF THE ROMANOV LINE - FOREVER !!!!
anastasia		My music mox!
tatiana		Anastasia, no!
tatiana		Hurry, child!
dmitri		No - this way!
dmitri		Go!
anastasia		Hurry, Grandmama!
tatiana		Get on! Anastasia, get on!
tatiana		Grab my hand!
anastasia		Don't let go!
tatiana		ANASTASIA!
gregor		Anya! Anya!
phlegmenkof		You can't get away from me now . . .
anya		Don't touch him.
phlegmenkof		 You ragged, skinny, little nothing!  I have had just about enough of you . . .
anya		About as bad as you smell!
serebreakov		I want her.
phlegmenkof		That's horrible, skinny thing?! She's crazy - she has no memory of anything before she came here! She didn't even know her name! That one is a rotten troublemaker, willful. . .
serebreakov		I'll break her will. . .  You will enjoy serving under me.
phlegmenkof		I couldn't break you - but he can!
gregor		 Anya?
anya		No.  I'm running to.
little girl		Running to? Running to what?
anya		To find my home.
chubby girl		But you are home.
anya		No. This isn't a home - it's just a building. Home is where you belong and none of us belong here.
gregor		Where is your home, Anya?
anya		I'm not sure but look. . .
anya		It says "Together in Paris". I was wearing this when I came here ten years ago - it's the only way that I know . . .
chubby girl		Is your home in Paris?
anya		It might be. I have to go and find out.
anya		I have to go now, before it gets light.
gregor		 But what if we can't ever find where we came from?!
anya		Then you'll have to make your own home. Lots of people do.
gregor		 Anya! What if we can't find anyone who loves us?!
anya		Then come find me.
anya		I think you should be more careful about who you invite to dinner!
anya		Could someone tell me. . .
peasant 1		End of the line!
anya		Which line?
peasant 2		Any line.
peasant 3		All lines are good lines.
guard		Very good. . .
anya		Is this the right line to get papers to travel?
peasant 4		Travel? Travel to where?
anya		To Paris. I have to get to Paris
peasant 5		Paris?!  What do they have in Paris that they don't have here?
peasant 6		Shorter lines?!
peasant 7		 Nobody leaves Soviet Russia.
anya		Is this where I get traveling papers?
clerk		It would be if we let you travel which we  don't so it isn't.  Russia is the people's paradise!
anya		 I didn't
clerk		No.
anya		 Dmitri? There must be a million Dmitris. . .
peasant 9		 Which line is this?
anya		Excuse me, do you know Dmitri. . .
peasant 9		I know nothing!
anya		 I wish they'd all stop telling me they didn't tell me!
tiny husband		 Could you get rid of her moustache?
anya		Excuse me - I'm looking for a man named Dmitri. . .
artist		But I didn't write it.
dissolve to		A SIGN
actress 1		 Oh, Grandmama! It's me, Anastasia! I've waited so long to see you!
dmitri		Vladimir, calm down!
dmitri		For a ten million rubles reward we can look a little longer. This is the big one. . .  and all I need is the right girl.
actress 2		 Oh, Grandmama! It's me, Anastasia. I've waited so long to see you.
actress 3		 See you!
actress 4		Oh. . . Grandmama. . .  It's me. . .
actress 5		Oh, Grandmama. . .
actress 6		 What's my modivation?
vladimir		 Stanislavski!
actress 7		Oh. . .
dmitri		I've gotta find the right girl!
dmitri		Next.
vladimir		It's no use, Dmitri - we'll never find the right girl!
dmitri		We will.  We have to.  Come on, Vlad - she's out there.
dmitri		She could be right under our nose
dmitri		 Ouch!  That really hurt!
anya		I'm sorry. . .  I'm. . .
dmitri		That's quite a hard head you've got there, boy.
anya		 I'm looking for Dmitri.  I need traveling papers - to Paris. I heard Dmitri could help me.
vladimir		Who did you hear it from?
anya		I heard it from everyone who said I didn't hear it from them!   Do you know Dmitri?
vladimir		 I know Dmitri well - perhaps I can help you.  Providded you have enough money to pay for this service. . .
anya		Well, I don't have any money . . .
vladimir		Good day!
anya		I have a bike!  Perhaps I could sell it and. . .
policeman		Nonsense.  There is no crime in the Soviet Socialist Republic.
anya		Sorry, boy, I have to go.
vladimir		. . .  even if we find her, what makes you think the Empress will even see us?
dmitri		She'll see us.
bartok		You, uhh. . .  hang here often?  "Hang" get it?  I said "hang" and we're both, you know, cause we're bats. . .  and, uhhh. . . what's your sign?
dmitri		 What was that?
vladimir		That was your dinner!  I do hope there is no cabbage in Paris!
bartok		Whatta' ya say we go somewhere - maybe get a bug to eat.  Get it?  A "bug" to eat, 'cause we're. . .
anya		What are you do. . .
anya		 DANCING BEARS, PAINTED WINGS THINGS I ALMOST REMEMBER. AND A SONG SOMEONE SINGS ONCE UPON A DECEMBER
vladimir		You're trespassing, boy!
anya		I. . .  I. . .  spoke to you earlier about traveling paper. .
dmitri		 It's her.
vladimir		He's her?
dmitri		Look!
anya		Are you Dmitri?  I didn't  mean to trespass - I don't want to do anything dishonest, but if you could just help help me. . .
vladimir		Perhaps you heard of our brilliant plan to find a girl and. . .
dmitri		 She doesn't want to do anything "dishonest". . .
vladimir		 Ew. . .  the honest type.
dmitri		 You look like her.  Like the Princess Anastasia.  Has anyone ever told you that before?
anya		 Oh, yeah - in the orphanage they constantly told me I looked like a princess! Stop that!
dmitri		People say Anastasia was the only member of the Royal Family to escape alive.  That makes her an orphan too 
anya		I don't know - I don't remember anything that happened before the revolution. . .
dmitri		You know, it's strange - Anastasia's grandmother, the Dowager Empress Tatiana has been looking for Anastasia since the revolution.  Why do you think she wouldn't go to her own grandmother?
anya		I don't know.  I don't see what this has to do with me.
dmitri		Perhaps it's because she has amnesia too - can't remember. . .
vladimir		How much do you weigh?
anya		Look, I came here to get papers to travel to Paris and. . .
dmitri		Why do you want to go to Paris?
anya		 I have my reasons.
dmitri		Anastasia's grandmother is in Paris.  We're going to bring Anastasia to her - in Paris. 
anya		Look - there isn't an orphan in the world who doesn't dream she's a princess but, come on. . .  Look at me!
dmitri		NO!  YOU LOOK AT HER!  LOOK AT HER!  It could be you.
anya		 THINGS MY HEART USED TO KNOW THINGS IT YEARNS TO REMEMBER. . .
dmitri		Find out the truth - come to Paris with us.
anya		All right.  I will go with you.
dmitri		The Her Royal Highness Princess Anastasia!
bartok		Oy. . .  he's gonna be so mad. . .
anya		 THINGS MY HEART USED TO KNOW THINGS IT YEARNS TO REMEMBER ...
dmitri		Find out the truth - come to Paris with us.
anya		All right. I will go with you.
dmitri		The Her Royal Highness Princess Anastasia!
bartok		Oy. . .  he's gonna be so mad...
bartok		Ummm ... Father Gregori? It's, uhh ... me. Bartok.  Phew! Not home ...
rasputin		What?
bartok		Oh my God!  Don't do that ... feel my heart. Go ahead. I'm dying here ...
rasputin		 And what do you want, my little rat-with-wings?
bartok		Name calling! That's mature.
rasputin		I gave you that tongue and I can rip it out!
bartok		 Oyyyy... Okay, now... promise you won't get angry.
rasputin		 Why would I ever be angry with you, little friend?
bartok		Yeah, right. Keep that thought okay? So, I'm in town, stop by the old palace. You get a better class of bats there - no tattoos or anything.
rasputin		Get to the point sometime tonight.. I'm late for a wenching.
bartok		Okay... you're not gonna like this but, well, it looks like Anastasia is ... still alive.
rasputin		Impossible. That rumor's been around for years.
bartok		Trust me, it's her!
rasputin		 How do you know?
bartok		Rodent's intuition, how do I know? She looks exactly like her. Except she's taller, which    is natural ... Of course my second cousin Treplev - he never    grew. Looks like a little pepper shaker. He was so cute ...
rasputin		 Source of my power. Owner of my soul. I need your help.
bartok		Hey, she's just a kid. And she's going to Paris outta sight, outta mind, outta Russia.
rasputin		I cursed then all!
bartok		My Aunt Bella, sweet woman not the brightest bat in the world - she used to hang right side up, anyway she always said "Curses were made to be broken". Course, she said it in those irritating little bat squeaks, so it wasn't quite so profound...
rasputin		The Romanovs tried to kill me and I swore to destroy all of them! If she lives, if she should have a child someday, the Romanov Family continues! And I won't lot that happen! THIS IS THE END OF THE LINE!
bartok		You know, this is really obsessive behavior. There is this doctor this doctor in Austria, Sigmund something and he feels. . .
rasputin		YOU IDIOT
rasputin		 Do you have any idea what would happen if that broke?!
bartok		 You'd lose your security deposit?
rasputin		 Evil, powerful beings - I have their power only if I contain them, control them. If they should all be released at once... well ...
bartok		Ohhh, that was dumb...
rasputin		Finish my prophecy...
bartok		Ew, I hate when he does this!
rasputin		She is not to get off that train... alive!
rasputin		Go! I don't care what you do with the others but finish the girl! KILLLLL HERRRRR!  And have fun...
tatiana		Take her away, Sophie.
tatiana		Haven't anything better to do than to break my heart.
sophie		 Oh, oh... I must say. I thought that one was bar - i'm just so shocked that she wasn't real well, she was real, I mean she was human, of course. but not our real. I must say, even my sisters were touched by her yes - yes they were...
tatiana		 No, Sophie. My heart can't take it anymore! I will see no more girls claiming to be Anastasia.
dmitri		Hurry up with those papers.
vladimir		Would you have leaned over Rembrant's shoulder and told him to paint faster?
dmitri		 "Wake up, your highness" - we should start getting used to saying it.
vladimir		What a world - a man who was in my position in society is calling a peasant 'Your Highness".
dmitri		 Wake up!
vladimer		We have a lot of work to do...
dmitri		Come on!
dmitri		Take my hand!
dmitri		Do you always punch people first thing in the morning?
anya		Sorry - it's a reflex. Living in an orphanage if someone bothers you - you automatically come up swinging.
dmitri		I wasn't bothering you. I was trying to wake you up!
anya		By pulling my hair?!
dmitri		I was all out of dynamite!
anya		 Put it on your nose. For heaven's sake, you're making such a fuss!
anya		 Men are such babies...
anya		Here, let me
dmitri		You're a princess...
vladimir		Royalty do not help people with their luggage.
vladimir		Well, she certainly has a mind of her own.
dmitri		Yes. And I hate that in a woman.
guard		Papers!
vladimir		 It's what I hate about this government - everything in red!
guard		Thank you, Comrade Zhivago.
zhivago		Doctor Zhivago.
vladimir		What do we do now?
dmitri		Pray he's color-blind...
guard		wait here.
anya		I'm going to stretch my legs
dmitri		That's a good idea - a great idea - stretch your legs  ... stretch then that way.
anya		 I must have hit him harder than I thought...
guard		That's them! Come on!
dmitri		Wait here!
anya		 Would you like to tell what we are...
dmitri		Come on up!
anya		Why?
anya		Just what do you think you're doing?!
dmitri		Trying... to... breathe...
dmitri		The guards!  I'll explain later.
anya		Forged papers! Now, what?!
dmitri		Now just get off the train.
anya		HUH?!
anya		Noooo....
vladimir		She's quite right, Dmitri, a man of my stature should not have to
dmitri		Come on, we'll jump together... Take my hand.
dmitri		Come on!
anya		No!
vladimir		I think I have hurt my...
dmitri		You must enjoy causing me pain!
anya		You shouldn't have pushed us!
vladimir		Is everyone all right?
anya		I'm fine.
dmitri		She's fine!  I may never walk right again, but she's fine...
bartok		Well, I better got goin'. Got a busy day letting all the blood rush to my head...
rasputin		She's too far away, isn't she?
bartok		Oy... not a road trip. I get wagon sick, you know that.
rasputin		We'll catch her and finish her!  We ride this night!
bartok		Well,    we wait this night!
vladimir		No have a lot of work to do, Anya! Come along, Meetoo!
anya		Who's Sophie?
vladimir		 Ah ... the Lady Sophie... The ravishing first cousin, once removed, from the Empress. We must convince Sophie that you are the Princess before we'll be granted a meeting with the Empress ... your grandmother, I mean.
anya		What?!
dmitri		You are the Princess.
vladimir		We're just going to refresh your memory...
anya		I don't have a memory and I'm not a Princess!  Even if I were - no one's ever going to believe it. I'm not exactly...
dmitri		What do you see?
vladimir		Ah! Let us begin!
anya		...and on my father's side, there was [THIS SECTION IS NOT LEDGABLE]
dmitri		Every Russian family has one..
anya		 Natasha! Natasha Feastavich!- but we called her Nashie Fooshie!
vladimir		Did I tell you that?
anya		You must have.
anya		 [THIS SECTION ALSO NOT LEDGABLE]
dmitri		 It's the best fork of all
anya		The dessert fork!
vladimir		 Ah, yes ... I have always loved that fork...
anya		What a beautiful ship!
dmitri		It used to be a private yacht before the government took it over.
vladimir		Oh, yes it was the seagoing vessel of elaborate elegance in entertaining...  A party boat. It once belonged to ...
anya		Konstantin Petrovich of Moscow!
elderly dowager		No, no, boys! You don't know where he's been!
vladimir		Come out! I can do alterations.
vladimir		I shant!
dmitri		I won't laugh - I swear...
anya		You said you wouldn't laugh!
dmitri		It's not you - it's the dress!
anya		 I'm never going to be..
vladimir		You are a natural! I don't know how you ever learned to dance that well! That must have been some high class orphanage ...
dmitri		I wanted to show you something.
anya		It's so beautiful ... and sad.
dmitri		Sad?
anya		Lost. it feels lost. This was hers?
dmitri		Yeah ... well, yours. You still don't believe that you're the Princess, do you?
anya		I know I must have had something to do with the palace - I've had little flashes of things - but being the Princess? It doesn't matter as long as I find my home.
dmitri		Well, the only thing you've got when you've got a home is a fear of losing it! You're lucky you don't remember the revolution -- I never had much, but what I did have -- I lost.
anya		I'm sorry.
dmitri		 Hey! It doesn't matter! You gotta make your own way in the world! Don't be sorry for me! I'm going to get what I want don't you worry!
rasputin		 She's out there ...
bartok		I'm getting a chest cold..
rasputin		Bartok... a question.
bartok		I'm getting pneumonia. I have a fever. Feel my forehead...
rasputin		What do you think is the most humiliating way to die?
bartok		My cousin Mischa, nice fellow had some dental problems - you didn't want to watch him eat, let's put it that way...
bartok		... anyway, a bunch of other bats were hanging in the belfry - I know, cliche, but there you have it, and Mischa, not the brightest bat in the world, decides to hang in the bell. Which was fine for awhile until it started ringing ...  Ewwww, what a mess ...
rasputtn		 Show her to me ...
bartok		And it didn't help the tonal quality of the bell, either.
dmitri		If you have to go - wake her..
dmitri		What were you doing?!
bartok		Boy, don't you hate it when that happens?
rasputin		 She leads a charmed life, that little one ... Someone is always there to save her. In the palace as a child, on the train and now ... it's him.
bartok		Nice looking fellow. I mean, don't get me wrong - I'm not attracted to him in the physical sense, I just ...
rasputin		You are toying with me, aren't you? You let me get so close...
bartok		Me? No. Rich food - it kills me. Ever try and fly after one of those heavy sauces?
rasputin		We are going to Paris - and while we're there, let's kill the young man. He annoys me.
anya		Oh! I'm sorry...
dmitri		It's okay. Didn't hurt..
anya		 I'm almost there... I'm finally going to know...
dmitri		How is our current financial status?
vladimir		If I used the word "bleak" I would be optimistic.
dmitri		It worked in Odessa...
elderly dowager		Help! My little dogs! Chevalier! Maurice! Hold on, darlings!
dmitri		I'll save them, Madame
vladimir		Such bravery! Why, that man should be rewarded! Amply rewarded!
anya		That was really very kind of you.
vladimir		I won't say a word...
dmitri		Nervous?
anya		Yes - If I can't convince Sophie, I'll never be able to see Tatiana....
dmitri		You'll convince her. You have the qualities of a princess you're poised and strong... and beautiful ... even if you forget a couple dates of family names - she'll know.
vladimir		May I present her Royal Highness Princess Anastasia!
sophie		Oh good! We haven't seen an Anastasia in several days!
sophie		I'd just like to ask you a few questions, dear...
anya		Of course.
sophie		Where were you born?
sophie		 This is the hard one ... what rare treat was served on the night of the Three Hundredth Anniversary of the Romanov Dynasty? The last ball they ever had?
anya		Father had fresh tropical fruits sent in. Oranges and pineapples from the far east. I remember ... I remember I threw an orange to a young boy who was hiding under a table...
sophie		 Yes ... yes, it was fresh fruit. Well, maybe not "fresh" Estelle got one rather brown banana but ...
vladimir		Are you impressed with our Anastasia?
sophie		Oh, heavens - I must say, yes.
vladimir		Then, you'll take her to see Tatiana?
sophie		Oh, heavens I must say... no, no actually, I can't - Tatiana has refused to see any more girls.
vladimir		Perhaps you could convince her?
sophie		Oh, heavens, no... but ...  She is going to be at the Ballet Russe tonight! That's the Russian Ballet - Russe for Russian, oh those crazy French... they only go to see which dancers will defect.
sophie		Come my dear, we've much to talk about.
vladimir		We did it! We did it, my boy! We're going to see Tatiana at the ballet tonight and we're going to be rich! Rich!
dmitri		But it's not    the money, Vlad.
vladimir		 Are you feeling all right?
vladimir		Life is funny, isn't it. You find the right girl ... and then you lose her.
dmitri		What do you mean?
vladimir		Dmitri ... You must understand that once you take her to Tatiana... well, it's over... nothing can happen between you. She's a princess and you're a commoner.
accordion player		Lovers!
flower seller		Ooh la la!
bartok		 PARSE HOLDS THE KEY TO MY HEART FRENCH- BAT- CHICKS HANG OUT AT MONTMARTRE WE'LL EAT SOME IN-SECTS THEN GO BACK AND HAVE --
bartok		Sorry, it's just... you know I saw these french postcards once and... ooh la la ... well, I'm not sure about the "ooh", but it's the "la la" I'm really lookin' forward to...  Right, I'm shutting up.
rasputin		We're close to her, aren't we?
bartok		What do you think? Is it me?
vladimir		Compliments of Sophie. Her escort has to look his best.
anya		How do I look?
dmitri		Look. There is your grandmother...
anya		She's so beautiful! I do remember her ... I remember her ...
dmitri		Come on. It's time..
anya		I'm so scared...
dmitri		Don't be
dmitri		 I know.
dmitri		I need to speak with the Dowager Empress ...
dmitri		Please, if you'd just listen...
tatiana		 Remove him at once.
dmitri		Please! Empress! It's not what you ....
dmitri		Anya. . . please. . .
dmitri		Anya, wait!
anya		 Tell me it isn't true?! Tell me you didn't do this for the money!
dmitri		No! Well, yes, but
anya		No! I thought you believed in me! It was all a lie!
dmitri		Sir! Your rear tire is flat!
chauffeur		it is?
tatiana		Ulo! Slow down!
dmitri		I'm not Ulo and I won't slow down. But you will listen to me!
tatiana		 You! How dare you?! Stop this car immediately!
tatiana		Stop this car!
dmitri		Please don't be afraid! I'm sorry, but there was no other way!
tatiana		Anastasia's music box... She had this all these years...  You could have found it...
dmitri		What I foundyour was your granddaughter!
anya		Go away!
tatiana		Who are you, child?
anya		 I don't know! I don't want to hurt you...
tatiana		Do you remember this?
anya		I remember something lost ... I'm so confused! Oh, please, just tell me if you recognize me! Do you think I could have... belonged to you ...
tatiana		Oh! Where did you get that?!
anya		I've always had it... I came here because of this! Tell me if you recognize it! Please! It's all I have...
tatiana		 If this is part of your scheme! If you found it or stole - I don't care, I'll give you whatever you want just TELL ME THE TRUTH!
anya		 THINGS MY HEAR USED TO KNOW THINGS IT YEARS TO REMEMBER
both		AND A SONG SOMEONE SINGS ONCE UPON A DECEMBER...
bartok		He is gonna yellllll.
bartok		I should have been a dentist ...
anya		... and that Christmas dinner, when Cook made that awful plum pudding and we hid it in our pockets so we wouldn't hurt her feelings! I do remember so much now, Grandmama, - but not everything.
tatiana		Don't worry about that now, child, it will all come back to you now that you're home...
rasputin		Yesss ... finally "home". And what a charming ... girlish little home it is.  Look, Bartok, little angels, the symbol of ... love. So sweet, so harmless.
tatiana		Anastasia! It was just a bat! It's gone, dear...
anya		 No, it wasn't a bat! I saw this horrible man - I remember him, I think...
tatiana		 No, no child... shush... it's all right ...
sophie		A grand ball for the Princess. How very exciting. So much to do, so little time...
tatiana		 Do it somewhere else, please. Quietly.
sophie		Caterers ... invitations ... saber dancers! We must have saber dancers!
pierre		Her head it is ... how you say?
andre		Beeg. Zat is how you say it. Beeg.
pierre		And the crown she is ... how you say?
andre		Small! Zat is "how you say" it! Don't be so French, Pierre wit the "how you say" all za time - zat is really annoying.
tatiana		You are going to make a beautiful princess.
tatiana		Lovely...  What troubles you, child?
vladimir		Madame, your... eh... guest has arrived.
tatiana		 Thank you, Vladimir.,
vladimir		Anya... Anastasia... I'm sorry ... We didn't mean to hurt you ...
tatiana		I sent for you because I owe you a debt of gratitude larger than I can ever repay
dmitri		No. Empress, you --
tatiana		I want you to have the reward money - you've earned it.
dmitri		Empress, no! I will not take the money! I just came to tell you I was sorry...
tatiana		Young    man, I...
dmitri		... and I'm going to keep my promise to stay out of your lives, forever.
tatiana		You are the boy ...
dmitri		 I should go
tatiana		That last night in the palace... one boy showed us kindness and courage. You were the boy who saved our lives, weren't you?  Please, is there nothing I can do to repay you?
dmitri		Promise me she'll have her home.
tatiana		She does.
dmitri		And tell me that she's happy.
tatiana		Oh, Dmitri.I wish that I could.
dmitri		I'm glad you found what you were looking for.
anya		I'm glad you    did too.
anya		Enjoy your fortune.
vladimir		But this invitation came from the Empress herself! It's the social event of the decade! You can't turn it down!
dmitri		Watch me.
vladimir		So where will you go?
dmitri		She found her home. Maybe it's time I found one too!
rasputin		So. You don't want to go to the coronation, eh?
dmitri		 Rasputin!
rasputin		I know, I know ... you thought I was dead. That's how the history books will remember me - not as the ruler of all of Russia, which I SHOULD HAVE BEEN - but as the guy who was never dead when you expected him to be.
dmitri		What do you want?!
rasputin		The same thing I wanted ten years ago - all the Romonovs dead I got the others, now I have to finish up with that nuisance, Anastasia...
dmitri		You're insane! You didn't kill the Romonovs - it was the...
rasputin		STOP IT! I DID SO KILL THEM! And I'm going to kill Anastasia.
major domo		... then as I say "Her Serene Highness Princess Anastasia" you, your Highness, should walk out on to the stage and greet your ...
tatiana		I believe her highness understands what she has to do.
anya		Oh, yes, Grandmama - I wait until I hear...
tatiana		No, not about the ceremony, Anastasia - do you understand the choice you must make.
anya		There's no choice...
vladimir		 Your "guest" is unable to attend.
anya		Oh, Meetoo! You look miserable! Oh, Vlad - look at him!
vladimir		 Yes, your highness.
anya		Poor Meetoo!
vladimir		 Yes, your highness.
anya		Cut it out, Vlad! I'm not angry with you anymore - I know how much you needed the money.
tatiana		But they didn't take the money - either one of them. I offered it to them, but they both refused.
anya		Dmitri didn't want the money?
tatiana		No, he just wanted to know you were happy.
vladimir		 With your highness, permission.
anya		Vlad, stop acting this way! You're my friend!
vladimir		No. From now on I am your loyal subject ... your highness. By your leave?
anya		Why does everyone have to act that way?
tatiana		You'll have to become used to it, child, if you accept the crown...
anya		"If" I accept?! Of course I'm going to accept! it's what I always wanted!
tatiana		Is it? Is this what you want?
anya		I wanted to come home, Grandmama - and I did. I came back to my home with you.
tatiana		You can't go back to find your home. Your home is in your heart, in the future that you make for yourself.
anya		And this is my future. This is who I am!
tatiana		This is who you were. Exactly who you are is up to you.
anya		I don't know who I am! I still don't know!
tatiana		Yes, you do. You do.
anya		I've spent my whole life waiting to find you ...
tatiana		And we have found each other nothing will ever change that! I am your family, dear child, but I may not be your home.
rasputin		Look, Bartok. Most of them were there the night I made this curse. Now, they'll get to see it finished!  Revenge is a dish best served... in front of a larrrrrge audience!
bartok		 Ahh, very witty. There's this English guy - Noel Coward - I'll bet he's quaking ...
anya		Dmitri?
anya		Dmitri ... Grandmama told me.
anya		Dmitri, what's wrong?
rasputin		 Throw her off the edge! Do it!
anya		Dmitri ... Look at me! It's Anya! It's ANYA!
anya		You saved my life in the palace! You won't take it now...
rasputin		 FINISH HER!
anya		Dmitri. I know you would never hurt me. You love me.
anya		Dmitri?
dmitri		Anya... where are we?
anya		I guess you aren't as powerful as you thought!
rasputin		I'll show you!
dmitri		Run, Anya -  go...
anya		I'm not leaving you!
rasputin		Fighting for fair lady. How noble...
dmitri		Anya!
rasputin		My curse is now complete! Good-bye, babushka!
dmitri		Take my hand!  Hurry!
anya		Don't let me go!
dmitri		I'll never let go!
rasputin		This little piggy had a palace... this little piggy had a throne...
dmitri		Come on... I'll take you home.
anya		I am home.
